HISTORY
OF THE

.

NATIONAL LOANS OF THE UNITED STATES
li'ROH

JULY 4, 11i~76, TO JUNE 80, 1880.
BY

RAFAEL A. BAYLEY,
TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

295

TREASURY DEP.ARTMENT,
OFFICE OF THE SECRET.A.RY

'

Washington, ]), O., .August 6, 1881,

Hon. FR.A.NCI$ A. w ALXER,
S1iperintendent of Census, Washington, D. 0 .
•r

Sm: As requested in your letter of the 5th instant, I transmit herewith the information compiled under the
supervision of Mr. R . .A.. Bayley, of this office, concerning the old loans of the government and other matters
pertaining to the national debt, transmitted to me under date of the 1st instant.
Very respectfully,
W. WINDOM,

Secretary.

TREASURY DEP.ARTMENT,

W ASHINGTON1 D. 0., A.1igust 1, !881.
JJon. WM. WINDOM,
Secretary of the TreasunJ.

Sm: I have the honor to transmit herewith, for such disposition as you may deem proper, the manuscript notes
prepared by me relative to the national loans of the United States from July 4, 1776, to June 30, 1880, showing
the issues and redemptions of the several loans for each year, together with a brief historical resume of the causes
which led to their negotiation. I take great pleasure in acknowledging my indebtedness to Hon. J, K. Upton,
assistant secretary of the treasury, Ron. James Gilfillan, treasurer of the United States, J. T. Power, esg., chief
clerk, Mr. W. F. MacLennan, chief of the division of warrants, estimates, and appropriations, and James R. Saville,
esq., formerly chief clerk of the Treasury Department, for encouragement and valnable assistance. The late
David S. Green was m.y fellow-worker in the laborious searchings through documents, old and new, bringing to.
the work great intelligence, zeal, and industry! I trust that the information furnished in these sheets may be
promotive of a more general knowledge of our :fiscal history, and more especially of the early :financial struggleSof our government, and that, as a work of reference, the compilation may be useful to many persons in official life.
The fact that this work ends with the census year 1880, explains the absence of any reference to the :financiaill
operations of the government for the current year. These include a notable reduction of the annual interest chargeon about six hundred millions of the bonded debt; a reduction effected practically without expense to the
government or :financial disturbance of any kind. The annual saving thus brought about is but one of the great
results effected, and the transaction, taken as a whole; renders memorable the present administration of the
Treasury Department.
· The responsibility for any errors that may exist in this work must rest entirely upon me, but I think it proper
to sa.y that the statements have been most carefully verified, and it is believed that strict reliance may be placed
upon them.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
RAFAEL .A.. BAYLEY.
297

!"- 265 MILL~

OCTST_._~DING-

PRINCIPAL OF THE PrBLIC DEBT. Jl!LY 1. 1880.

II
1------ ____ __ __ ___ __ __ ·- ___ D E BT BEARING INTEREST

$ 1723.993.IO

j

I
OTAL PUBLIC DEBT

§

$ 2120.415.371------------------·llmw.!i~

~·

~

~

I"~ 215. 5

-~

TOTAL INTEREST BEARING DEBT. JULY l. 1880.

~

c:i
L!')
m

,-:
0
......
,-:
(\J

%

\.0

MI LL~

$ 1723.993.100.

c:i

II)

co

4';·()

739.34-7.800.

o)
(")

c:i
0

co

I.!)

C\J

LO

tO

&%

6%

484-. 864. 900.

235.780.400

co

({)

Cl

z:
0

m
Cl

w
n::
w

.....

<rJ

21
w

0::

u)

z

0
Cl.
::J
0

u

..;m

(\J

g

.

1.

~

I ~- ~1~

"

"'

-:I'

=

m

-

--·---------~-~~.

~ci

lil

N.

.

co

lil
ci
C')

co

.

'-'

I

-~-----1

THE NATIONAL I.JOANS OF THE UNITED STATES FROM
JULY 4, 1776, TO JUNE 30, 1880.
SECTION !.-HISTORICAL.
FOREIGN SUBSIDIES.
The opening of the Revolutionary War excited deep ~nterest in Europe, and especially in France which power
'Once the possessor of two-thirds of North America, had been humbled by the seven years' warfure that closed with
the treaty of Fontainebleau, uncler which France had been forcecl to surrender to Great Britain all her American
.possessions except a few unimportant islands. The French watched with interest the course of events that
threatened in turn to strip their hereditary enemy of both her old and new possessions in America, and to bui1d up
·on this side of the Atlantic a new power. The contest claimed the particular attention of the Oornte de Vergennes,
the French minister of exterior relations, who, though unwilling at first to conclude an armed alliance with the
·colonies, determined to assist them witll money and munitions of war. The treaty followed, but the military
-snpplies aud money furnished early in the contest were of the utmost importance. These supplies were not
furnished openly, because France was not in a position to commence war with Great Britain. Accordingly the
·celebrated Oaron de Beaumarchais was employed as a secret agent. He was a br:i:lliant French writer and courtier,
'<'1 man of great vivacity and energy, but apparently with limited knowledge of mercantile affairs. As much
:sym11athy has been expended on the memory of Beaumarchais; and his fate has been referred to as an illustration
'()f the ingratitude of republics, an attempt will be made to bring to light, from the documents on record and from
•the works of his biographer and contemporary authorities, the facts in the case, with a view of showing the justice
•or injustice of the settlements between Beaumarchais and the United States. This question once divided Oongress,
aml was the cause of much bitter feeling. It can now, however, be discussed, by the aid of documents then
inaccessible, without prejudice. The charge made against the United Stn,tes was a serious one, and involved the
\receiving of millions of dollars worth of supplies under a regular contract during the darkest hours of the Revolution,
:arnl then allowing the person furnishing these supplies to pass his last days in prison for the non-payment of the
debt thus incurred.
Beaumarchais, at the commencement of the Revolution, had taken up the cause of the Americans with all the
ardOl· of his nature, and rendered most important services in bringing the hesitating French ministry to adopt a
decisive conri,e of action. His services in this particufar were greater, probably, than those of all our agents iu
Europe at the time. .A.s early as September, 1775, he addressed a memorial to the king of France, in which he
plead the cause Of America with all the vigor of his pen. He followed this up with many others, addressed either
to the king· or the Oomte de Vergennes. The gist of his arguments was that it would be impossible for Great Britain
to subdue the colonies if they were assisted in their struggle; that if not assisted they might succumb, join the
English, and turn their arms against France. He says: "We are not yet in a fit state for making war; we must
prepare ourselves, keep up the contest, and with that view send secret assistance, in a prudent manner, to the
Americans."· These memorials seem to have decided the Oomte de Vergennes to give the assistance, and to
employ, as his agent, their author. Beaumarchais was sent to London in the spring of 1776 to make the necessary
arrangements, there being then no American agent in France. In London he was introduced to Arthur Lee, who
was at the time studying law in the Temple, but who bore some kind of commission from the secret committee of
Oongress. Beaumarchais informed him that the French government wished to send 200,000 lonis-d'0r (equal to
$816,750), in arms, ammunition, and specie, for the assistance of tb.e Americans, but in a secret manner, and that
all they wanted was to know through what source it was best to make the remittances. He requested Mr. Lee to
give the earliest intelligence of' this to Oongress, and to request that a small qtrnntity of tobacco or some other
jprouuction of America might be returned, to give it the air of a mercantile transaction.*
On Beaumarchais' return to Paris he made the acquaintance of Silas Deane, who arrived there about the first
of July, 1776, with full powers as political and commercial agent for the United States in France. His instruct:i.ons
"Pitkiu's Civil aii<l Political History of the United States, vol. i, p. 403.
bt session 15th Uongress.

Letters of Loe nnd others, Report of Committ~ro, No. 111,

300

VALUNI'ION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

were to obtain if possible, 100 cannon with ammunition, also arms and uniforms for 25,000 men. . These Beaumarchai.&
contracted to furnish* froni the arsenals of Prance, in addition .to a large a~ount of o~her aa:twles thought needful
for the supply of the colonies. Deane, on his part, agreed that the Umted ?olomes should pay for them .by
remittances of ..American produce, the business to be transacted by Beaumarchais, under th~ name of the Spamsh
:fi.rm of Roderigue, Hortales & Co. This contract, with its a~com~anyi~g letters, appe~.rs on lts fac~ to be perfectly
regular: an ordinary commercial contract, by which the Umted Oolomes ~ere ~o receive the snpp~1es they needed,.
and to pay for the same within one year by shipments of produce to the nnagmary firm of Roder1gne, IIortales &
Co. Had it been what it appears to be, the United Colonies would have been bouncl in common honesty not only~o,_
pay in full for the stores, but to pay dearly for the risks to which the contractor would be exposed. Bnt t~ere is.
evidence that both parties knew the contract as it stood to be but a sham, drawn up to mask the faot that it was.
the government of France which was to supply :England's rebellious colonies. The contract was concluded about.
July 24, 1776. On the 15th of August, twenty-two days after it wa.s signed, Deane wrote to the secret committee·
of Congress as follows :
I find Beaumarchais, as I before hinted, possesses the entire confidence of the ministry; he i? a man of wit and geni.ns, and a;.
considerable writer on comic and political subjects. .Ali viy Bupplies are to come through hiB hands, which at first greatly cliscouragccl my
friends, knowing him to be a man of no interest with the merchants, but, hacl I heen as doubtful as they, I coulcl not hn.ve stepped asiclo·
from the path so cordially marked out for me by those I depend on.
"
•
"
Everything lte says, writes, 01· does iB in i•ca1ity t114·
action of the ministry; for that a man should but a few months ago confine himself from his creditors, anil now, on thie occaBion, be able to adva11c11·
ha1j a million, is so extraordinary that it ceaaea to be a mystery.

The whole tenor of Deane's letter t shows that while he supposed the supplies were to be paid for as well as.
received through Beaumarchais, yet that, if a debt, it was a debt due to the government of France. On the part of:
Beaumarchais, he was not only aware that the French ministry had determined to assist the Americans, but when
he signed the contract he had in his possession a million of liYres drawn from the French treasury for the i)lll'poseof furnishing this assistance, and a few days afterward he received from the Spanish treasury, through the Comte
de 'Vergennes, another million for the same purp'ose. As shipments went on and remittances came but slowly from
.America, he received a third million from the king of France. As the whole controversy between the United
States and Beaumarchais turns upon the fact of these advances for the benefit of the colonies through him, it is
necessary to show the evidence on this point.·
On the 2d of May, 1776, the Comte de 'Vergennes submitted the subject to Louis XVI in the following note:+·
I have the honor of submitting to your majesty the paper which is to authorize me to fu1·nish a million of lfores for tho English colonies,.
if yon should deign to ratify it with ypur signature. I add, too, sire, the· draft of the reply which I mean to malrn to M. Bemuun.rclmie.
if your majesty shall approve it; I beg it may be returned to me without delay. It shall not go forth in my lin.ndw1•iti11g 11or in t;hat oJl"
any of my clerks or secretaries. I will employ that of my son,.whi.ch cannot be known, a.nd 1 although he is in his :fifteenth year, l eMll
answer positively for his discretion. .M it is of importance that this operation should "!:lot be deteotoa, or n.t least not imamted to tho
government, I propose, if your majesty consents, to call hither the Sieur Montn.udin; the ostensible motive will be to ask an account of hie
correspondence with the Americans, and the real one to charge him with the transmission of the f1mils, which your majesty is plen.aetl to
grant them, directing at the same time all the precautions to be taken as if he advanced thefunils on Ms own aocaunt,
On thiB head also I take the liberty of requesting the orders of your majesty. That being done, I will write to tbe Marq11is Grimald
(secretary of foreign affairs in Spain). I will inform him of our operations and propose to him [ile la doub!e1'] to do the same.

The king immediately gave his minister the authority he askecl for, and M. de Rarvelay, keeper of the royal
treasury, was directed to hold the million of livres subject to the particular order of 'Vergennes. ':rlw Sieur
Montaudin was, however, not intrusted with the transmission of the funds, Beaumarchais being employed for that
purpose, and the million was paid over to him. For it he gave the receipt of which the following is a trauslati6D
of the original in the archives of France :§
I have received from Monsieur Duvergier, n.greeably to the orders of the Comte de Vergennes dated the 5th instant which I Imel
remitted to him, the sum of one million, of which I am to render an account to the said Comte de V~rgennea.
'
Paris, June 10, 1776.
·
CARON DE BEAUMARCHAIS.
Good for one million livres Tournois.

The advance of this million was suspected by the authorities of the United States and when Beaumarchais.
made his demands on them for a settlement, they attempted to obtain a statement of 'the fact from the Frenoh
government; but it was a state secret, and a copy was refused. They were obli"'ed to be content with a st,atement
that a million ~as advanced on the 10th of June, 1776, before the .Americans ha~l any authorized agent in France~
I~ was not until July 7, 1794, after the downfl:kll of the French monarchy, when the republicans in power carecl,
little for the secrets of the defunct government, that a copy was obtained by Gouverneur Morris then minister of
the United States in France. He wrote to M. Buchot, commissioner of exterior relations in Fran~e, as follows:
SlR: D~~ng the last war France furnished several sums of money to the United States of America, both under the head of lonns and
that of gratmties. The fust of these advances was a. million of livres1 and it appen.rs to have been made on the 10th of June, 1776. It iit

"BeaumarchaiB and his Times, Lom6nie, vol. iii, p. 152. Lom6nie says 200 cannon.

t .A.ppenclix to Pitkin's History, vol. i 1 pp. 514-518,
f Pitkin's History, vol. i, p. 403.
~ Sparks' Life of Gouverneur Morris, vol. ii, p. 446, note.

Lom~n·
· · • p. 129,
" le1 VO1, 111
1

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

301

ien:li61!ed ·among the .gratuities, b~t it is not known to whom it was paid nor how it was appropriated. Doctor Franklin in settlin the
.accounts of the Umted States Wlth the Freneh ministry, neglected to ask for the papers which relate to this sub'ect 'an f g
when the .banker of the United
applied (in the months of A.ugust and September, 1786) to M. Durival, in ord;r to' obt!i:
assurec1 him t?at he had communicated the request to the Count de Vergennes, who said that the receipt in question could be of no us' to
the banker, smce he was not intrustecl with the pecuniary affairs of the United States till January 1777 and that th'
t
ed
~n the 10th of June, 1776.
'
'
· 1S paymen was ma e

S~ates

:::a~~

10ur minister~ were a~so given to understand that it was useless to urge the demand for a paper in proof of a payment which would
.
be of no acc~unt m the reimbursements to ~e made by. the United. States. Doctor Franklin concluded from this that th~ advance had
!been lodged m ~h~ hands of M. Beaumarch111s, .and that 1t was a cabmet mystery whose tfcla~rciBBenient ought to be a matter of indifference
~o ~s, at least till lt .became. necessary to set. this sum against the demands of Beaumarchais for the supplies which he had furnish<;d to the
United States. This oc~as1on has now arrr;ed, but without this you will perceive, at tho first glance, that the payment having been
·~cknow~edged by t~e Umted States, the receiver, whoever he may lJe, ought to give them an account of the manner in which he employed
11t. Besldes, ~ysterrns serve too often ~nly to cover wasteful expenditures, of which the people are victims. It is therefore given me iu
charge to solicit the papers acknowledgmg the payment of a million livres as a gratuity, made by France to the United States of Americo
•Oil
10th of June, 1776. I think they will be found among the accounts of M. Durival, then head of the treasury department for foreig:
.affairs; and I apply to you, in these circumstances, with the more confidence, as I am fully convinced of the good will of the French
;government toward the United States.
l havo the honor to be, &c. 1
GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.
To M. BUOHOT,
OommisBioner of .Exteriol' Relations.

1

~he

. M. Buchot to Gouverne1w Mon·is, minister of the United States.

p A.RIB, July 71 1794.
*.Sm: In your letter of the 21st ultimo you request of me the communication of the papers which explain in wbat manner the million
:advanced to the United States on the 10th of June, 17761 was paid.
I sent your request to the Gomittf de salut public, to whom it appeared just, in this respect, to render to the United States the
satisfaction, which was denied to them by the ministers of the ancient regime. In consequence, I caused the necessary researches to be
made, 1111d l hereby subjoin a copy of a receipt, dated the 10th of June, 17761 which appears to be the one desired by the United States to
regulate their accounts.
As you have well observed, there is no occasion for mystery between two nations united by all the ties of friendship and of common
foterest.
I have the honor to be, &c.,
BUCHOT.

If more conclusive proof iti needed that this million of livres was not only advancecl to the United Colonies
tbrough Beaumarchais, but that it was intended as a gratuity to the colonies, it is to be found in the letter of M. Dnrival,
one of the French ministry, and Ohef dii biweau des fonds des affaires etrangeres. Benjamin Franklin, minister of
the Unitecl States to France in 1785, discovered that a million of livres had been advanced from the royal treasury,
which did not appear in the accounts of M. Grand, the banker of the United States in Paris. He determined to
have the matter explained if possible, so that, as he says, "it may stand clear before I die, lest some enemy should
afterward accuse me of having received a million not accounted for." After his return to .America in 1786 he
opened a correspondence with the secretary of Congress on the subject, and finally wrote to M. Grand requesting
him to make inquiry into the matter at the French treasury. The result of his inquiries was the following 1etter:t
M. Durival to M. Grand.
[Translation.]

VERSAILLES, .August 30, 1786.

Sm: I have received tho letter which you dicl me the honor to write on the 28th of this month touching the advance of a million,
which you say was made by the farmers-general to the United Stat!ls of America, the 3d of June, 1777. I have no knowledge of that
11dvance. Who.t I have verified is, that the king, by the contract of the 25th of February, 1783, has confirmed the gratuitous gift which
bis majesty h11d previously made of the three millions hereafter mentioned, viz: one million delivered by the royal treasuriJ the 10th, of June,
1776 ancl two other millions advanced also by the royal treasury in 17771 on four receipts of the deputies of Congress, of the 17th of
1
January, 3d of April, 10th of June, and 15th of Octob!lr1 of the same year. 'This explanation will, sir, I hope, resolve your doubt touching
the advanee of the 3d of June, 1777. I further recommend to you, sir, to confer on this subject with M. Gojard, who ought to be better
informed than we, who had no knowledge of any aclvanees but those made by the royal treasury.
I have the honor to be, &c. 1
DURIVAL.

This would appear to settle the question as to the advance of the first million. Against all this evidence there
can be adduced only a resolve of Congress passed in 1779, denying that any present of supplies previous to the
treaty of alliance had been receivecl from France, and the denial of M. cle,Talleyrand in 1816, when pressing the
claim of the heirs of Beaumarchais. The resolution of Congress was passed under the pressure of a demand
made by Gerard the French embassador, after the publication of a pamphlet by Thomas Paine, secretary of the,
congressional c~mmittee on foreign affairs, in which, from official documents in his possession, he had, withou1l
authority, made such extracts as went far to reveal this dangerous state secret.
..
.
.
.
.As for M. cle Talleyrand it is probable, from his too well-known character, that he would, m a .d1ploma!ic way,
have deniecl or asserted anything to carry his point. His denial, even if sincere, could have no weight agamst the
express declarations of Vergennes, Durival, and others, the actors in this affair.
• See American State Papers, ''ForeigriAffairs," vol. i 1 p. 411. See receipt, iinte.

t Sparks' Diplomatic Correspondence., vol. iv, P· 223.

302

VALUATION, rrAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

As to the second million the evidence is as follows: The kings of Fran~e and Sp~in had, as members of theroyal house of Bourbon, signed what was known as the "family compact," by virtue of which they were to act ;~getherin their foreign policy. we have seen that Vergennes, when askin~ for a 1~i11ion from ~e French treasury. for the
English colonies", proposed to write to the Spanish minister ~f foreign a~a1rs am~ ask him to double the gift. The·
dispatch is not accessible though it might probably be found m the Spamsh archives, but the request was granted.
"In order that thissuhven~ion might.be kept secret, the Spanish million before reaching his (Beaumarchais') ba~ds had to make a little·
· 't Th s
'sh
b
d
a· d it into the "Ublic treasury of France and took an acknowledgmcn~ for lt from the cnshiel'; he·
c1rcu1 .
e pani em assa or P l
J!
•
'
•
•
:fi • ·h :fi 11 •
· t
h · •l :i;
remitted this acknowledgment to JI.I. de Vergennes, and the latter gave it to Beaumarchais rn exchange 01 1 e o owrng recerp , w rn I
quote literally from the original in the archives of foreign affairs.
[Tramlation.]

I have received from ms excellency M. le Comte de Vergennes an aoknowlllclgment for the million livres ~'ournois whi~h ~· ~uve1·gi.er
had given to the Spanish embassador, with which acknowledgment I shall touch, at the royal treasury, the said sum of a m1lhon romn01s,.
for the employment of which I will render an account to his said excellency M. le Comte de Vergennes.
C.ARON DE BEAUMARCHAIS.

AT VERS>JLLEB, A.ug. 11, 1776.

.

No evidence as to this second million was accessible to the United States authorities when they settled Beaumarchais' accounts. The versatile author of the "Barber of Seville" was now set. up as a merchant, an entirely new
walk in life for him, with a capital of two millions of livres (about $363,000), advanced from the royal treasuries of·
France and Spain to supply the United Colonies with the means of carrying on the contest. It is probable thu,t he,
had rece1ved orders from the French ministry to invest it in material supplies, instead of handing over the specie.
The cannon, ammunition and muskets were taken directly from the l!'rench arsenals. It is said that he wn.s torestore these in kind, antl this may be the fact. The only evidence on the point is a letter from the French minister
of war notifying him that when he returns the powder it will have to be subjected to the nsual tests. '£his might
apply either to the powder sent to the Americans or to that required for the private navy which Beaumarcllais fitted'
out, as he says, "to cruise across the ocean, to convoy, attack, burn, or take private yessels." One of his vessels,.
the Fier Roderigue, a three-decker, carrying sixty guns, while convoying ten merchant vessels, was stopped a.nd
orclered into line of battle by .Admiral de Estaing, who was then lying off the island of Grenada in commm1c1 of' the·
French fleet, and preparing to fight the English fleet commanded by Admiral Byron. The Fier Roclerigue came
out of the action covered with glory, but the captain and a large number of the crew were killed ancl the vessel
riddled with balls. Byron was forced to retreat.
The cloth for uniforms was purchased in market, as it is hardly possible that the French government hall in·
store clothing for soldiers to suit the fantastic ideas of Beaumarchais, and if it had possessed it, to clothe Americitll"
soldiers in French uniforms would have been equivalent to a declaration of war with Great Britain. The secret
committee of Congress had ordered that the uniforms to be purchased should be blue with fn,cings of di:lforent
colors for the different arms of the service, but Booumarchais very coolly changell all this. .As a Wl'iter of operas,
he had perhaps derived his ideas of martial equipments from those of the mimic soldiers of the stage. He wrQte to·
the committee, December 1, 1776, that he should ship uniforms for six divisions of five thousantl men each, one
division to be blue, the others respectively brown, green, red, gra~r, and light blue.
History has not recorded the color of the uniform in which onr Revolutionary forefathers won 01· lost tholr
battles, but as Beaumarchais actually shipp~d a large part of the clothing, it is probable that some divisions of the
army really were attired in this parti-colored fashion. In these shipments his native energy came out in all its.
force. Despite the scarcity of vessels and seamen, the fact that the ocean swarmed with British cruisers rea<ly to
intercept all supplies for America, the strict blockade of the American coast, and the energetic remonstrances 0£ ·
Lord Stormont, the British embassador, he succeeded in loading and dispatching a large amount of supplies, cannon,"
ammunition, and arms, most of which reached their destination.
Lomenie, the author of the entertaining work" Beaumarchais and his Times", says he had forty ships at sea, and
that the first cargo of supplies ·sent to the .Americans was valued at three million livres, but in this there is mtlch...
exaggeration. If he had forty ships at sea they were not engaged fa supplying the United Colonies. The tota.I.
nntnber of vessels sent was eight, the Amphitrite, Mercure, Mere Bobie, Flamand, Mary Oatberine Seine Amelia
a~d. Therese. The first shipment was by the Amphitrite, and her cargo was valued (as shown b; Beau:narcbais; ·
ongmal account-current) at 979,493 livres, 8 sols, 3 deniers. Four of these vessels arrived safely at Portsmouth New
Hampshire, two reached Martinique, where their cargoes were received by Mr. Bingham ao-ent for the Oonti~ental 1
Oo~gress, and dispatch.ed in small, swift-sailing vessels to Edenton, North Carolina, and tV:.o, the Amelia and Th6rese,.
arnved ~t cape Fran901s, where they were received by M. Carabosse, agent for Beaumarchais. The fate of these last·
cargoes IS uncertain; a portion at least was dispatched to the continent.
Lomenie in his wo~k asserts th~t hardly any return was made in produce for these shipments, mentioning only
three ~.all lots as having been received, and even for these, he says, Beaumarchais had a contest with the American-.
comnuas10nertl, Franklin, ~eane, and Lee, who wished to sell the cargoes and appr?priate the proceeds to other,
purposes. Now, the fact !s, as shown by the Beaumarchais manuscript, that ten vessels were dispatched with•
1

"Lomenie, vol. iii, J.lP• 129, 130.

303.

HisrroRY O:U' 'l1HE NATIONAL LOANS.

produce to Beaumarchais, the cargoes of which he sold, and credited the proceeds to the United Colonies. Some
of these were return cargoes on his own ships, others were by vessels chartered for the purpose and one shipment
was· made on the Bonhomme Richard, Paul Jones' flag-ship.
·
·
'
The shipments began October 1, 1777, when the Amphitrite was dispatched with a return cargo, and continued
until July, 1781, by the following vessels: Therese, Fier Uoderigue (two cargoes), Perouse, Deux Helenes, Bonhomme Richard, Polly, Amelia, and Mercure. These vessels were not all fully loaded, but their cargoes, after
deducting one-half for freight and large sums for commissions, netted 713,996 livres. It is a noticeable fact that
among the American produce sent was a large amount of indigo, then extensively cultivated at the South, but nolonger produced jn the United States, though the soil proved well adapted to it, and its quality wal'I excellent.
The returns from America were, however, very slowly made-too slowly to enable Beaumarchais to meet his
engagements. For this reason he applied in the year 1777 to Louis XVI, and received by installments another
million of livres. The proof of this is to be found in Lomenie's work referred to above. Lomenie often exaggeratesr
but he advocates most warmly the side of Beaumarchais, and wastes a great deal of special pleading to prove that
.the United States defrauded him. For this very reason he is a :first-cla.ss witness when stating facts that bear against
his client. He held in his possession Beaumarchais' papers and had access to the French archives, and the proof
was so incontestable th.at he could not avoid the conclusions. He says (vol. 3, page 224):
I have been obliged, nevertheless, contrary to tho very sincere opinion of tho heirs of Beaumarchais and to the declarations of the
different ministers since 17781 all based upon the first official declaration of M. cle Vergennes-I have been obliged to re-establish the truth
as to the fact of the celebratecl million which was incontestably given by tho government, not for a sec-retpolitioal service, 1mc0Mwotei110itk
tho Amerioan B11:1J,Plie.s, but for the supplfos tlwnlBelves. Finding, also, in tho archives of foreign affairs, the material proof that Beaumarchais,.
in<lepenclontly of tho first million, given June 10, 1776, roceivecl a seconrl from the court of Spain, August 11, 17761 and a third paid by
installments in tho course of 1777, I have been obliged to mention all these facts because they are true, and because the first duty of lt
writer, who respects himself, is not to conceal the truth.

Beaumarchais' letters written while shipping the supplies are both unique and interesting. He lectures the
Oontinental Congress with the freedom of a general officer speaking to a council of western Indians, advises the·
appointment of a dictator, urges the declaration of war against Portugal, as if war with Great Britain was not
enough, and wishes ex11editions fitted out against "the defenseless English factories in Africa", and the "galleons.
heavy with gol~l on the coast of Brazil". He says he has two thousand military officers ready to start for America,
and in a subsequent letter says he has sent thirty-four of them over. To these foreign officers he made large advances:
in specie. Some of them did good service in the armies of the Revolution; others, who came over with great
:pretensions, provecl worthless. Besides the shipments of produce, Congress paid in specie to M. de Francy, an agent
sent over by Beaumarchais in 1777, as admitted in his account-current, 55,000 livres; in June, 1780, by bills on Dr.
Franklin, 144,000 livres; in June, 1781, 144,000 more; and May 18, 1782, bills of exchange for 2,400,000 livres at three·
years from date, with interest added. These bills were all cashed at maturity.
Under the act of April 18, 1806 (2 Stat., 380), $78,886 26, equal to about 434,635 livres, was paid to Beaumarchais~
heirs; and under the convention with the king of the French of July 4, 1831, 800,000 francs, equal to 810,000 livres,
wer~ reserved and paid.*
An account fairly stated between the Unitecl States and Beaumarchais and his heirs, allowing t-0 Beaumarchais all.
his charges for shipments, freight, insurance, and advances to foreign officers, and to the United States the subsidies
and the payments admitted to have been made, will stand as follows. The account is stated in livres Tournois, as
nearly all the transactions were carried on in that currency. Fractions. of li'11:'es are thrown out. Five and a half
livres are nearly equal in value to one dolla.r.
ACCOUNT.

On.
Tmi: UNlTED STATIGSLl!vree.
Dy shipmcmts ofprodnco ............ ·-··-· ·----· .••... --·· .......•.. ···--· ··-·-· ·---·· -···-· · ···--·
713, 996
By payment to M. de l!'r:Lm:y ... - ..... - ....... - -- . - .. -· ... - ..... --· ., . -·· .... ·-- - - - .. ·-- · ·· · --· · --- •
55, 000
By bills of exehange on Frauklin ... - - - -.•.• --•... - . '. -- - ... -• -- .. - --.. ----. --...••• · --- • · · · · - · · - · · -• 2, 688, 000
By ll'reuch subsidies p11id Beaumarchais .•. - -· •.•. - . --· - .• -·-· ... ---··-. ·-- -·· .... - -- ...• ··· - •• --· -· 2, 000, 000
By Spanish subsiclies p11id Beaumarch11is ... - •... - --- •..• ·--. -·-. --· - --- . ·-·. ---·. · •.. ·-. ·-- - -· ·-·--· 1, 000, 000
By gran:t by Congress April, 1806 ·--··· .•.• ··-·-· .••• ----·· --·- ..••••..•. ·--··· --·- ••.• - .•.• -··- •.•• 434,635
By payment in 1835 .••. --·· ·--· -···· •••• ---- -··· -··· .. , ....••• ·-·- ·-·· .... ··-- •.••.. ·--· -··· -··· -·--~,000

7,701,631

Dn.
To Be11umarchais' account for supplies, &c., as stated by himself t .•.. ·-- --- .•... -· :. -··- ••• -··. ----· .. -- 6, 274, 844
Overp&ymont by the United States .••. --- - .............. ·-- -·· .•. -'· -·- .. ··- -- • ··---. ·-· --- ·- ·-· · 1, 426, 7~

H

Lomenie, vol. iii, p. 223.

t Beaumarchais' manuscripts.

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEfffEDNESS.

304

out except on matters in which it is confirmed by others. The charges of interest by Beaumarchais have not been
adi.:iitted. If any interest was due it was to the United States, the three millions of subsidy having b.een advanced
so early in the transactions.
Beaumarchais was financially ruined, it is true, but not by his dealings with the United Oolonies. Lomenic1
wl10was in possession of his private papers when he wrote, says that from October 1, 1776, until September 301 1783,
his accounts show that he received 21 1092,515 livres and disbursed 21,044,191 1 showing an excess of receipts over
disbursements of 48,324 livres. • But these seven years cover precisely the time of the American Revolution,
during which the shipments were made. The balance on the right side of the profit-and-loss account is smalli but
it does not look like financial ruin. The fact is that his embarrassments arose solely from his engaging, in the year
1779, in the republication of the works of Voltaire, one of the most extensive and most unfortunate literary uuuertakings on record. Voltaire's wor:Irs were prohibited in France, and the influence of the clergy was sufilcient to
prevent even Beaumarchais, though high in favor with the king, from republishing them there. He therefore
rented from the margrave of Baden, in Germany, an old castle at Kehl. Here he founded an enormous printing
-establishment, imported from England, notwithstanding the war, the best types that could be purchased, made the.
paper for the work, and carried the whole through, after years of labor, to its final completion.
Voltaire's works comprised seventy octavo volumes, and of these he printed 15,000 copies, or 1,0501000 volumes.
It was a most unfavorable time for a great literary enterprise. Half the world was in arms, and in France church
and state were tottering on the verge of an abyss. When the revolution broke out but 2,000 sets of Voltaire
had been disposed of, leaving on hand 910,000 volumes. So vaRt were the quantities of books that he was ol>lig·ed
to store in Paris, in the Faubourg St. .Antoine, that he was subjected to frequent domiciliary visits by the mol> ltllll
the revolutionary authorities, who were persuaded that his storehouses contained either grain or arms. t To sell
the books was impossible, and they probably saw the light only in the shape of gun cartridges.
So much space has been devoted to the affairs of Beaumarchais that not much more can be given to an account
.of the other subsidies received. Two million livres more were granted by France in the year 1777, and. in 1781 six:
millions, making a total of ten millions, of which Beaumarchais received two, and the rest was paicl through
Benjamin Franklin. The French authorities insisted that so much of this money as was not expended in Europe
should be drawn for by General Washington in bills on M. de Harvelay, garde di~ tresor royal. Irmnklin
protested that it was not the usage in the United States to allow the General of the army to draw for moneys
ill.tended to be paid into the treasury, but the French minister would hear no explanations 011 this point mul
.assured Franklin that it was his majesty's order. t It is supposed, therefore, t;hough the fact has not been reco~dell
that the bills went to Paris signed by General Washington.
'
The subsidy account stands as follows:
Livres.
French subsidy • . • • • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . • • . . • . • • • . • . . . . . • • • • . . • . . • • .• . • . . . • . . • . • • • • • . • • • • . . . . . . . . . • • • . . • • • • • 10, 000, 000
Spanish subsidy .• • •• . . • • • . • . • • • • . . • . . . . . . • • • . . . • . . . . • • • • . . • . • • . . • • . •. . . . . • . . • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • •• • • • • .. 1, 000, 000

Total.····· · · • • · • · • • • •· • • • • • • • • · · · · • · · • • • · · · • • • • • · ••• • •• • • • .•••••.••••••.••.•. , ••••••.••• : . • • .. • 11, 000, 000

equal to f!l,996,500. .As this money was a free gift it has not been repaid unless the sums paid Beaumarchais be
.taken as a partial reimbursement.
'
LO.AN FROM F.ARMERS-GENER.A.L OF FR.ANOE.
The n;,st loan.negotiat.ed by the Continental Congress was obtained in the year 1777 from the" farmers-general
.of F~a:nce · Until that tune t~e expenses of the Revolutionary gover:µment in Europe had been met by small
subsidies from France ancl Spam, and by such remittances in specie as could be spared from home. But these

~~d:uco~d not g~ very far toward accomplishing the objects of the American commissioners in Europe. Beside ·
pplies obta~ed through Beaumarchais, it was thought necessary to purchase large amounts, especially of

gunpowd?I',. of which 200,00.0 pounds we~e purchased at once; also to build ships of war to cruise on the coast of

Gr~a~ Britain an~ make pnze~ of ~~e richly laden English ships in those seas. While waiting for the means of
b~il?Jng large ships, small, swift-sailmg vessels were fitted out as privateers, with the connivance of the French
IDimstry, under the encouragement and partly with the funds of the commissioners. One of these sailecl entfrely
.around J:el~nd and captured ~nd ?urnt seventeen or eighteen sail of vessels, which occasioned great consternation
::~:g h ~gt ish ~e:hants, r~ised i~surance to ten P~r cent., prevented the great fair at Ohester, in England ancl
. ct e erre sb pments m English bottoms that m a few weeks fort:v French ships were loacling in the Th~mes
.an ms ance never efore known. §
•
'

appl~~e~e::t~om~itt~e. ~f O~ngress appears to have advised Deane to obtain a loan. It is probable that he
rebellious colonie:~c T:e;1;r~ ~ro~:C; ~u~;~;. t~~: had ~ot yet. co~e for them to loan money openly to England's

:!~:a:~ri~~t~oc~~p~;~~:ng~~~~!:1e~~,t~:t~~~~::~£~ft:~: :~~~~:ii~~!~~;: ~~~;:;~~~:~:h!~:~: !~~~:i:~~:~~~f.
.a privileged association who "farmed" or leased the ~t any diplomatic .complications. The farmers-general were
.
pu c revenues, paymg to the government a certain ftxe<l sum
•Lom6'

1···
me, vo · iu, P· 2'27.

+Ibid.. chap, 24.

t Sl)arks' Dip .. Cor., vol. ill, p, 193.

'
Ubicl., vol. i, p. 107,

HISTORY OF 'l1HE NATIONAL LOANS.

305

and making a heavy profit from the surplus. This association was allowed to bring tobacco into the kingdom free
of duty, which, practically, gave them the monopoly of the tobacco trade. When Deane applied for a loan to the
farmers-general they offered him two millions of livres in exchange for tobacco. The contract, elated l\farch 24, 1777,
and signed by Franklin and Deane on the part of the United States and by M. Paulze on the part of the farmersgeneral,* provided that the United States shonkl deliver in the ports of France, during the ;year 1777, 5,000
hogsheads, or 5,ooo,ooo pounds, of York or Jam es river tobacco, at 8 sols per pound, or 40 livres Tournois ($7 26) per
hundred-weight, which would amount to 2,000,000 livres for the whole. For this the farmers-general were to
advance 1,000,000 livres within one month after the signing of the contract, and l,000,000· more on the arrival of the
first ships loaded with tobacco. Any greater quantity than the 5,000,000 pounds sent by Oongress, was to be paid
for at tlie same rates. Under this contract the atlvance of 1,000,000 Jivres was paid to the commissioners, Franklin
and Deane, June 4, 1777, ancl·by®them deposited with M. Grand, banker of the United States in Paris. It appears
that, on this contract, the United States made three shipments of tobacco in 1778and177D, by the ships Baltimore,
Morris, and Bergere. The aggregate net weight of their cargoes was 390,891 pounds, which the farmers-general
received at 153,229 livres, 5 sols, 7 deniers. This left a balance of 84:G,770 livres, 14 sols, 5 deniers, which was paid
after the Revolution to the republican government of France. The corporation of farmers-general was extinguished
by the Revolution aml most of its members perished by the guillotine. The government probably seized the
obligations of the Unitecl States which they held, and claimed their payment-the property of the victims, held to
be public enemies, haviug esche~Lted to the state.
When the time came for settling this loan, the transactions of the American commissioners in France were
involved in so much myster;r, that it was supposed by the treasury authorities that this advance of 1,000,000 livres
was included in the French subsidies, and even Franklin, though engaged in the transaction, was unable to explain
it. '.l.'he king of Fritnce had declarecl that he had giYen 3,000,000 li\·res to the Unite<l Colonies in 1776 and 1777,
but only 2,000,000 had reached M. Grand, banker of the United States, in Paris. Wllat had become of the other
million, was unknown; and it was at one time supposed that the advance from the farmers-general was the third
million. The comptroller wrote, Febrlmry 8, 17M, to M. Bournonville, secretary of the foreign legation, as follows:
After a cn.rllfnl examination of all the foreign accounts of the United States, it is certain that 110 more than 3,0001000 liyres, inclucling
the million allvance<l by tho farmors-goneml, have been credited by any agents of tho Unitecl States. The assumption of this debt by
the l!'ronch government;, taken in connection with tho cironmstauces before stated, creates, therefore, 11 just 11rcsumption, until an ex:plauation is roceivocl, that tho advance by the farmers-genei:al was includecl with the aclv1:mces macle from tho French treasury in tha year
1777, and constitutoll IHH't of tho gmtuitous aitl referred to in the contract of February 25, 1783.
·

The mystery wi1s not cleared up until Gouverneur Morris obtained, from the French archives, a copy of the
original receipt given by Caron de Beaumarchais showing that he had recei~f-d the first million of subsidy, a.ncl
hence the mlvance by the farmers-general was a loan from that corporation ancl not a gratuity from France. The
interest on this loan ceased December 31, 1793, when the account was merged in the general acconnt of' the French
debt.
FH.ENCII LOAN OF EIGHTEEN MILLION LIVRES.
It is extremely difficult to obtain information respecting this loan. It is probable that it was, in its inception,
not so much a loan as a subsidy, a l)ttyment of 750,000 livres every three months to the American commissioners
in France, to enabl<.1 the colonies to keep up the nneqmtl strnggle with Great Britain. The money was advanced
without an expectation of repayment, thoug'h with a stipulation that it should be repaid. In 1782 an account was
taken of former payments not included in the 10,000,000 livres expressly given as a gratuity, and a formal contract
for the repayment was drawn up. These payments amounted to 15,000,000 livres, ftnd a further sum of 3,ooo,ooo
livres was added ancl paid to the United States, making a total of 18,000,000, which it was agreed should be repaid.
The contract will be found in Journals of Congress, vol. iv, Appendix, p. 20, and is dated July 16, 1782. It
enumerates the different sums advanced by the king of Fnmce to the United States "uncler the title of a loan, in
the years 1778, 1779, 1780, 1781, antl 1782", and provilles that, although in the receipts for said payments it is
promised that the money should be repaid on the 1st of January, 1788, with interest at 5 per cent. per annum, yet,
as the payment of so large a sum at one period might greatly injure the finances of the United States, it should be
made in twelve annual payments of 1,i:;oo,000 livres each, to commence from the third year after the conclusion of
peace. Article 3 declares th<tt "although the receipts of the minister of the Congress of the United States specify
that the 18,000,000 of livres Tournois are to be paid at the royal treasury with interest at 5 per cent. per annum,
llis majesty, being willing to give the United Sttttes a new proof of his affection ancl friendship, has been pleased
to make a present of, and to forgive, the whole arrears of interest to this day, and from thence to the day of the
<late of the treaty of peace: a favor which the minister of the Congress of the United States acknowledged to flow
from the pure bounty of ~he king, and which he accepts in the name of the said United States with profound and
li\'ely acknowledgments''. Franklin, in transmitting this contract, wrote: t
A11 tho accounts against us for money Jent ancl stores, ai:ms, ammunition, ancl clothing furnished by government were brought in an cl
.examinecl, aml 11 balance recoivccl which made tho clebt amount to tho even sum of 18,000,000 livro.~, exclusive of the Holland loan for
" Sparks' Diplomatic Correspondence, vol. i, p. 282.

20 W D ~'

t Sparks' Life of Franklin, vol. ix, p. 383.

306

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

·
of the king's
1·s guarant ee. rn rea a·mg the contract you will discover several fresh marks
ill" to
which the kmg
.
. goodness to us,
t amouuting
the value of near t wo m1·11·ions. These, a dded to the free gifts before made ns at different t1meF<, form au .obJect of n.t 1east we1ve m rnui.i,
for which no returns but that of gratitude and friendship are expected. These, I hope, may be everlastmg.

It does not appear whether the "stores, arms, and ammunition" were those sent to t~e Unitecl States ~y
Beaumarchais from the arsenals of France, as before referred to; if they were the same, the Umtecl States luwe paid
for them twice.
.
. .
The definitive treaty of peace was made in 1783; but the United States, ill the confns10n ex1stmg b?twee~1 t~o
close of the war and the adoption of the new Oonstitution, were unable to begin the repaym?ut as provided for 1~1
the contract. It was a debt due by a Congress dependent for its revenues on States beyond its control. No~ uutll
after the formation of the general government, as now existing, was repayment begun, and then the ] rcuch
monarchy, to which the debt was due, had passed away. The repayment ?eg;an .in 1791, m:d was l~uulo to tho
revolutionary government of France. The last direct payment in money on tlus contrac~ was 1,o00,000 hvres, made
in 1795. This left a balance still due of 4,186, 776 livres, 17 sols, 2 deniers. For this bahtnce,, added t'.> ot;lter
items of the debt due France, then unpaid, stock was issued known as the 5~ per cent.. stock. of 17ti5, tl111:1 !:!tock
being accepted in lieu of all demands by James Swan, agent of the French government. This loan has all heeu
repaid.
LO.AN FROM SP.A.IN IN 1781.
The early financial transactions of the United States in Europe appear to have been, in the main, secret. To
this may be attributed the fact that the information respecting them is so scanty. If it exists, most of it is probably
buried in the archives of foreign governments, and the Spanish loan of 1781 is no exception to this rufo, even i;ho
Secret Journals of Congress containing but little information respecting it. The instructions to John .Tay, 1::1ent as
minister to Spain in 1779, show that he was directed to represent the distressed state of the financial concorus of
this country "to his Catholic majesty" and to solicit a loan of $5,000,000, but before asking for a loan he wa1::1 to
endeavor to obtain from his majesty a subsidy in consideration of a guarantee by the United Sta,tos of all rights
which Spain might acquire in Florida by conquest from Great Britain.* It is to be presumed, of course, tlmt Mr.
Jay obeyed his instructions, but he obtained neither the subsidy nor the five millions as a loan.
In making up a statement of the foreign debt, however, after the adoption of the Constitution, it l'LJ.lpeared that
a small sum was due Spain for advances of money in tile year 1781. The register of the treasury in a letter to
the Secretary, Alexander Hamilton, October 9, 1792, says:
I have the honor to inclose certified copies from tho treasury books of an account depending between his moS"b Catholic mn~jeHty 1t1ul
the United States, for moneys received cit loan. I cannot find that this loan has been recognized on the Journals of Co11gr(lSH iu Hirn
maHner with the French and Dutch loans. It is founded on a settlement made by the late commissionm: for settling tho foreign 1w11ounte,
entitled: "Loans from the coUrt of Spain." This money was paid to the Hon. James Gurlloquoi and has boo11 regnl1wly aeeo1mtotl fo1• hy
him, having been expended in the purchase of clothing and in the payment of 1Jills of exchange clrawn by orclor of Congress,

It appears by this statement that the Spanish debt amounted to $174,011 00. This was 1111 re!)a.id in tho ycnrs
1792 and 1793; in fact there was an overpayment of $6 13, caused by small variations in the rates of oxclumgt~.
FRENCH LO.AN OF TEN l\IILLION LIV RES.
The financial &ituation of the Continental Congress was at its worst in the ;rears 1770 and 1780.

Ovt>r

$200,000,000 in Continental currency had been is:rned, and this currency, at .first circulating readily at; its fact~

value, had depreciated as the amount issued increased, until it only passed at forty for one. lilvcn at tMs dhwount
it soon ceased to circulate at all, and in the year 1780 "it quietly expired in the hands of its possessorH ". '1'ho
Revolutionary army was reduced to extremity. On tlle 1st of February, 1778, nearly 4,000 men were retnmcHl as
unfit for duty for want of clothes. In January, 1780: General Washington wrote to the governo1· of Oonnocticmt,
that the army had been near three months on a short allowance of bread, within a fortnight almost perishing.
They had been sometimes without bread, sometimes without meat, and oftener without both. They had borne
this distress, in which the officers shared the common lot with the men, with as much fortitude as human mitm'o wnl'.l
capable of, but they had at last been brought to such a dreadful extremity that no authority or inflneuco of tho
officers, ~o virtue ?r patience. in the men, could any longer restrain them from obeying the dictates of their foc:lings.
The soldiers had m several mstances plundered the neighboring inhabitants even of their necessary snhRistoncc.
Without an im~ecliate remedy this evil would soon become intolerable, and, unhapily, l here was no l)l'Ospc~et of reliof
through t~e ordmacy channels. ~hey were reduced to this alternative: either to let the army disband, or to cu11 upon
the count1e~ of. that state to furnish. a supply of cattle and grain for the supply of their wants. If the magistrates
refused the~ md, they would be obliged to have recourse to a military impress. It was evident to the members of
Congress that reu:.ffrom new issues of paper money was hopeless, and it was determined to attempt to negotiu,to n
• Secret Journals of Congress, vol. ii, p. 263,

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

307

loan in Hdland. On the 21st of October, 1779, Henry Lamens, of South Carolina, was chosen as ai:rent for that
purpose. His instructions were contained in two resolutions which were introduced and passed October 26, an<l
which were as follows :*
·
Besolved, That he be iustructed to borrow a sum not exceeding ten millions of dollars at the lowest rate possible, not exceeding six
per cent. per annum.
Resolved, That he be empowered to employ on the best terms in his power some proper mercantile or banking house in the City of
Amsterdam or elsewhere in the United Provinces of the I.ow Countries to assist in tho procuring of loans, to receive and pa.y the money
borrowed, to keep the accounts, and to in1y the interest.
·
.

A commission was issued June 20, 1780, to John Adams, who had been appointetl minister plenipotentfot'Y to
negotiate a treaty of peace with Great Britain, authorizing him to contract for a loan in Holland, and imothcr was
issued to Francis Dana of the same purport, setting forth that Henry Laurens, who had been appointed on that
business, had been cletained by unavoidable accidents from proceeding on the business of his agency.
Shortly after these commissions were issued l\fr. Laurens sn,iled for Europe, but the vessel in which he took
passage was captured by a British frigate off the coast of Newfoundland. He threw his papers overboard, hut not
weighting them sufficiently, they floated and were recovere<l by a British sailor. ~'his incident produced a war
between Great Britain and Holland, for the papers contained the plan of a treaty with the United States drawn up
under the directions of Van Berckel, grand pensionary of Amsterdam. Sir Joseph York, English minister at the
Hague, was instructccl to demand a disavowal of this plan by the states general and "the exemplary punishment
of the pensionary and his accomplices as disturbers of the public peace and violators of the rights of nations"·
"Satisfaction for the supposed offense not being made by the states general, the British minister was orderell to
withdraw from Holland, and this was soon followed by a declaration of hostilities against that country by the court
of London." t
Mr. Laurens was taken to London, examined before the privy council, and committed a close prisoner to the
Tower on the charge of high treason, but the negotiations for a loan went on under the commission issued to Mr.
.A.dams, aided by the exertions of Col. John Laurens, who had been dispatchecl to Europe on the same mission in
December, 1780, his father, Henry Laurens, being still a prisoner in the Tower of London. When Colonel J;aurcn:-;
arrived in Paris, he found that very fair promises of assistance had been made by the French court., but nothing had
been done.
The delay in fulfilling these promises illy accorded with the high and ardent feelings of the young Amedcau
envoy. Knowing the pressing wants of his country and the necessity of immediate aid, if afforded at all, n,fter a delay
of more than two mouths he determined at the next levee day to present, in person, a memorial to the ldng, though
directly contrary to the forms of court. In conversation with the Comte de Vergennes, on the morning of the day
on which he intended to present his memorial to the king, Mr. Laurens expostt1latecl with him, on delaying tbe
promised aid, in such warm and bold language that the minister replied:
"Colonol Lanrens, you are so recently from the headquarters of the American army, th:tt you forget yon are no longer clelivering the
orders of the colllmamler-iu-chief, but addressing the minister of a monarch who has OV(lry disposition to favor your country."
" "Favor, sir," l'eJoined 1,aurens'; "the res11eot which I owe my country will not aclmit the term-say tho object of my mission is of
runtua.l interest to our respective nations antl I subscribe the obligations; lmt as the most conclusive argument I cim address to your
excolleucy, the sworcl which I now cany in clofcuse of France aH well as of my own country, I may bo compelled to clraw against France ns
a British sub,jeot, unlcss·tho succor I solicit is speeclily acconletl."
'

Ile presented his memorial to the king on the same day. It was graciously received and, no doubt, was the
means of hastening the promised succor.
Applications for loans in Holland had hitherto been unsuccessful. The Hollanders either distrusted the secnl'ity,
or were unwilling to incur the resentment of Great Britain by lending the Americans money to enable them to carey
ou the war.
The king of France had, through his minister at the Hague, offered his assistance to the Americans in
procuring loans in that country, but without eftect. He now engaged to become, himself, responsible for the
sums which might be furnished. In consequence of this and the exertions of l\fr. Adams, a loan of ten mi1lions of
livres was obtained in Ilolfand. t
The money thus borrowed, although intended solely for the United States, ha.ving been obtained on the credit
of France, became a debt due to that country, and was provided for in the :financial contract drawn up July 16, 1782,
a.nd signed by the Comte de Vergennes and Benjamin Franklin.
·
.
Article V of this contract says that although the loan of 5,000,000 florins of Holland, amounting on a moderate
valuation to 10,000,000 livres Tournois, agreed to by the states general of the NethE?rlands on the terms of the
obligation passed November 5, 1781, between his majesty and the states genernl, has been made in his majesty's
name and guaranteed by him, it is nevertheless acknowlfldgecl that the said loan was made, in reality, on accoun~
and for the service of the United States of North America. By the terms of the obligation the king had agreed
to pay the capital of the said loan with the interest at 4 per cent. per annum, tbe capital to be repaid in ten equal
payments, the first to commence the sixth year after 'the date of the loan, and to be completecl in five years
thereafter, and it was t11erefore promised that the United States should reimburse and pay the same with interest
•Secret J ourn~ls of Congress, vol. ii, p. 283.

t Pitkin's History, vol. ii, p. 101.

t Ibid., pp. lfi!:l, 159.

308

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

at 4. per cent. per annum, at the royal treasury of France, in ten equal annual payments of 1,000,~00 livros each, to
commence November 5, 1787, the king, "on account of bis affection for the Un~ted States, ~-avm~ b:e~ pleas~d
to charge himself with the expense of commissioners and bank for the loan, of which expense is maJeS Y ias ma e
a present to the United States."*
The repayment of the principal, however, was found to' be impossible until after the new govern~ent of tl~e
united States went into opel'ation, and was not commenced until the year 1792. In 1795 there remamml unpa,ul
the sum of 969,6961ivres,19 sols, 5 deniers, equivalent to $176,000, which was paid in the 4i} per cent. stock of 1705,
issued in settlement of this with other amounts due France. This stock has all been redeemed.
It appears that when the money was received from Holland 5,000,000 livres was paid into tho French treast~ry
for supplies furnished, amo1mting to 511341065 livres, 7 sols, .6 deniers, leaving a balance due France for snpphe~1
amounting to 1341065 livres, 7 sols, 6 deniers.
FRENCH LOAN OF SIX MILLION LIVRES.
The loan of 10,000,000 livres obtained from France iu 1781 was soon exhausted. Very little of it in cash ever
reached .America, one-half of it being immediately paid into the French treasury for supplies previously furnished
1Jy the government, and the balance mostly expended in taking up bills of exchange drMvn long before, under the
authority of the Continental Congress. So utterly exhausted was the American treasury that iu 1782, when, peaco
busing become a certainty, it was determined to reduce the army, the utmost difficulty was oxperienc<.'d in obfaining
a small sum to pay the discharged soldiers enough to take them to the places of their enlistment. Now lottus were
necessary, and it was resolved to make new efforts both in France and Holland.
On the 14th of September, 1782, Congress resolved:
That a sum not exceeding $4,000,000, exclusive of the money which Mr. Adams may obtain by Lho loan now nogotiwtiug in Hollruul,
be 1.Jorrowcd in Europe on the faith of the United States of America, and appliecl towarcl defraying the expenses which shall lrn inom1·ml,
and those wl1ich during tho present year have 1.Jecn incurred, for carrying on the war.

The superintendent of finance and· secretary for foreign affairs were directed to take means for cmrrying this
resolution into effect, and to transmit it to the United States ministers plenipotentiary at Versailles aucl tho Ifogne.
The minister at the court of Versailles was instructed to communicate to his most Christian majesty tho
foregoing resolution, and to assure him of the high sense which the United Sta,tes, in Congress assembled, entertained of his friendship and geuerous exertions, and their reliance on a continuance of them; also, the necessi.t;y of
applying to his majesty on this present occasion. t
No information respecting the negotiations for the loan is accessible. By the contract dated li'ehrnar;1' 2u, 17tla,
it appears that "his majesty determined, notwithstanding the pressing necessities of his own service, to grant to
Oongre:,;s a new pecuniary assistance, which he fixed at the sum of 6,000,000 livres Tournois ($1,080,000), umler tho
title of a loan".f The money was to be paid to the United States, from the funds of the royal treasury, iu srnns of
500,000 livres monthly for twelve months. For its use the United States were to pay nu interest of /j per cont. plll'
annum, to be reckoned from. January 1, 1784, and to refund the principal in six equal llortions of 1,000,000 livros
each, the first to be paid January 1, 1785, and the payments to be made thereafter annually until the entire loan
was reimlmrsed. These repayments were not made as provided for by the contract. The debt rmnainml unpaid
until the year 1795, when the agent of the French government accepted a new 5i} per cent'. stock in lion of tho
money (see: 5~ per cent. stock of 1795).
BAL.ANOE OF SUPPLIES DUE FR.ANlJjjj,
·This account for balance of supplies was a credit allowed by the government of France on a pnrcllase maclo b;'r'
the agents of Congress. It is admitted here because it was included as a part of the account at the time of tho
final adjustment of the French debt, in 1795. Its settlement clOsed the financial transactions of tho Continentnl
Congress in France. The whole amount received from France during the war of the Hevolutioii in the way of
loans a:id subsidies, was 45,000,000 livres, equivalent to $8,167,500.
'
.
T~1s accon:it ~as stated after the conclusion of the loan of 10,000,000 livres. One-half' of this ten millions was
imm~c'.u~tely paid mto the French treasury for supplies previously furnfahecl by the government of France on tho
reqms1tion of Col. Jo~h~ Laurens, who arrived in Paris early'in 1781. The supplies furni~hed 011 his rcgnisitiion
amou_nted to 5,134,0uo hvres, 7 sols, 6 deniers. When the 5,ooo,ooo livres were paid into the French treasury tiiero
rem~med a balanc~ due France of 134,065 livrel:l, 7 sols, 6 deniers, equivalent to $24,332 86. Tho supplies fu~nislietl
consisted of clothing, arms, medicines, surgical instruments, gunpowder, lead, and steel besides a consiclera.ble
amon~t of.finery, such as lace, silk, velvet, and silvered buttons. Our forefathers of the 'Revolution, in the midst
of th~ir distresses, s~em to have had an eye to "tho pomp and circumstance (If war". Interest on this bal~iuce of
supplies con:menced m Septembflr, 1783, the date of the definitive treaty of peace with Great Britain. This was
probably owrng to so~e arrangement made in France, as the supplies were mostly furnished in 1781 ancl the last
payment on them until the final settlement was made, in 1782.
'
1

"Journals of Congress, vol. iv, Appendix, p. 20. t Journals of Congress, vol. iv, p. 78.

tJouxnals of Congre~ vol. iv, Appendix, p, 23.

1

HIS'rORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

309

HOLLAND LOAN OF 1782.
The negotiation of this loan was the commencement of a long series of financial transactions in Holland. If
the gold of France aided the United States through the war in which independence was obtained, it was frum
Holland that the money came which assisted the government through the difficult years ofpeace that followed. It
will appear by the remarks on the "French ·loan of ten million livres" that on the 21st of October, 1779, Remy
Laurens was appointed a commissioner to negotiate a loan in Holland, ancl that, as he was not able to leave for
Europe at the time, a commission was issued to John Adams, June 21, 1780, giving him authority to borrow in
Holland, on the credit of the United States, a sum not exceeding $10,000,000, at not exceeding Ci per cent. interest.
There was then no American minister in Holland, nor had .that country yet acknowledged the United States
as an independent nation. Mr. Adams, when he liegan his negotiations, held no commission authorizing him to
treat with the government, and this fact proved an insurmountable obstacle in the way of obtaining a loan in
Amsterdam. A commission as minister plenipotentiary to the court of the Hague hacl been issued: to Mr. Laurens,
and he hacl at last sailed for Europe, but his voyage had only resulted in landing him in. the Tower of London,
and his papers were in possession of the English.
Mr. Adams appeared in Amsterdam as the agent of thirteen states, unknown among nations, unrecognized
and not asking for recognition by the government, but seeking a loan of millions. The repayment of the loan
depended on the success of these states in a doubtful and disastrous war. It is not to be wondered at that the
security seemed very uncertain to the careful Hollanders. The court of the Hague was evidently well disposed
. town.rd the colonies, and had shown this disposition in many ways, which had been the occasion of earnest
remoustrances from the British minis.ter. To one of his letters, demancliug that American vessels be no longer
allowed a shelter in their harbors nor American rebels an asylum in their eountry, the states general returned the
haughty answer that "there were no gates to the Hague".
It does not appear why recognition and a treaty of amity and commerce had not been asked for earlier. No
money couhl be borrowed in Holland until recognition was obtained:i \:Villiam Lee, ·minister to Prussia, had
stopped in Amsterdam long enough to confer with Van Berckel, grand pensionary of that city, antl to draw up the
plan of a treaty; and this paper, captured with Mr. Laurens, finally involved the states geueml in war with Great
Britain.
Mr. Adams began the attempt to negotiate a loan in September, 1780, and soon found that there were great
difficulties in tho way. He wrote to the president of the Uontinental Oongress, Septem her 10 :*
I was tolcl thnt it was mysterious that Congress should om11ower any gentleman to negotiate n lo:tn witl1ou1; at the samo timo
em11owering the same, or some other, to negotiate a political tronty of 1111i1111ce a1Hl commorco comdl:ltcnt with tho treaties already made
with other powe1·s; that n minister pl<inipotontiary hero woultl ho advisc!l to apply diroetl~T to t,ho prince and the states general; that
ho would not bo affroutecl or ill-tnmtcd by either; whether publicly received or not, wonkl ho conrtccl by nmuy respectable inllividuals,
and would greatly facilitate a loan.

He appeai·s to have made the first application for a loan to the firm of Vollenhovens.t
Mr. Biclrnr rceommen<le.cl the Vellcnhovens as a honso of unquestionable solidity, wholly Dutch, biased neither by France nor England.
But they were too rich to haznrcl so clangorous an experiment. They cloclinccl my application to tirnm at that time, and have repented
since, as I believe, for they have cndeavorocl to rotriove thoir error, ancl hnvo succoodcd, t,hough not to so great mlvnntage as they
might havo roapecl if they had accepted my offer.

.

'

After the refusal of the Vollenhovens Mr. Adams applied to the house of Bowens & Sons, who also declined.:j:
This Mr. Dowons & Sons was a capifa1l house in .A.msterclam, near rch1tions of Mr. Bickor, who recommended them to me after the
Vollonhovens lmcl refusecl. Although these gentlemen receivecl me very kindly and politely, as tho Vollonl10vem1 hm1 clone, ancl gave me
some ho11cs; yet the prince's clcnunciation of Mr. Van Borckcl ancl the hnrgom'asters of Amsterdam hnd excitccl sncl1 an alarm that tho
Bowens were intimiclatecl ancl refused.

In the meantime Oongress, sorely pressell for funds, seems to have drawn bills of exchange for money that had .
not. yet been received, hoping that it might be obtained befpre the bills reached Europe. This had been clone
before, while Dr. Franklin was negotiating for loans in France, and had caused him very great embarrassment,
leading to constant applications for small sums from the French treasur,y, some of which were granted, some
.denied, aml part of the bills went to protest, though afterwards paid. Mr. Adams wrote to the president of
Congress, November 17, 1780 :§
In the present critical state of things a commission of a minister plenipotentiary would he usL1fnl here. It woulcl not be acknowledged,
i•erhaps not proclucec1, oxco11t in' case of wnr (between Hollan<l ancl England); but if peace shoul<l' continue, it woulcl secure its possessor
tho external respect of all. It woulc1 giv;: him n right to claim ancl cleman<l tho prerogatives arnl privileges of a minister plenipotentiary
in case anything shonltl turn 1111 which might require it. It woulcl mnko him consic1erec1 as tho center of .American affn.irs, and it would
assist, if anything woul<l, a ioau. I cannot conclncle without observing that I cannot think it would be safe for Congress to draw for money
herc'tmtil thoy shall receive certain information that these bills can be honored. There are bills arrived which, if Mr. Ji'ranklin cannot
nnswer, must, for aught I know, bo protested,

It was evident that American credit was very low in Holland. The {lefeat of General Gates at the South, the
treason of Arnoltl, the capture of Laurens and his papers, which were soou to bring on a war ~etween Holland and
*Life aml Works of John Adams, vol. vii, p. 259.

t Ibicl, p. 313.

t Ibid, 11· 32.l.

~ Ibi<l, J>. 381.

310

VALUArrroN, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEB'rEDNESS.

the English, were the reasons assigned for this. Added to. thi~ was the fa?t ~hat ~r. A~1~ms ~ield n.o com1~iss io11
1
· · t. · Holland Congress finally removed this obJection by a:i:ipomtmg bun mnnste1 plempotentiar;) to
as mm1s er m
~
,
. .
h 1 h · · A ·1 l"81
. te a t.reaty of amitv and commerce with the states general. The comm1ss10n reac ec un m pr1 , 1 ,
negotIa
"
'
'
.
f n 11 d
l t ,, tl
and be immediately presented a memorial to Peter Van Ble1swy?k, grand pens10na~y .o 1 . o, atn b' a~c .o d ·.l~
president of their h1gh mightinesses for the week, the Baron ;Lmden de Hemmen , <ts n~g o . e rnce1ve ,is
minister from the United States of America. This memorial appears to have been under cons1demt10n for nearly a
ear. The constitution of the states general was peculiar, and to American ideas wonld ~e~m to have ~een
Invented for preventing the transaction of any business whatever. Tbe principle that the maJor1ty shall rule was
not recognized all bills requiring for their passage the unanimous vote of all the stn.tes of tho ~etherh1m1s. T~e
smallest provin~e (and some of them were very minute) was able by its single vote to veto any bill what:eyer. This
system caused a great delay in the settlement of the question, and rendered it necessary for Mr. A<lm~1s to can
personally in January, 1782, on the delegates of each province and city. He found that .the attamment of
unanimity would be difficult, there being a strong English party at the court, though .the re1mbhc was then at war
with England. The Americans were blamed as the cause of the war, which had ~nte~rupted the trade of the
country, and efforts were made to excite the mob of Amsterdam against them and then· friends.
".All this had such an effect that all the best men seemed to sbudcler with fear. I should scarcely find cre<lit in .America if I were to
r~late anecilotes. It would be ungenerous to mention names, as well as unnecessary. I need only say tllat I was avoided like a 1wsti1mrno
by every man in government. Those gentlemen of the ranks of burgomasters, schepens, pensionnries, ancl ovo.11 lawyers, .who luul
treated mo with great kindness, sociability, and oven familiarity, dared not see me, clared not bent llom<l whcm I vl81tm1. at tlrnn• honso~,
dared not return my visit clared not answer in writing even a card that I wrote them. " " " Not long nftor nrr1vocl nows of tho
capture of St. Eustatia, &~. This filled up the measure. You can have no idea, sir, no man who was not upon the spot can have 1111y iiloa,
of tho gloom and terror that was spread by this event. The creatures of the court openly rejoiced in this, aml t11rcatcucd, some of them
in the most impudent terms. I had certain information that some of them talked high of their cxpoclil:itious of po1mlnr insmrootions
against the burgomasters of Amsterdam and M. Van Berckel, and did Mr. Adams the honor to mention him as 0110 who was to be hanged
liy the mob in their company.

When it became known, however, among the people of Holland that Mr. Adams held full powers as minister
plenipotentiary, and was asking for a treaty of commerce and alliance, the machinations of the English pa1·ty at
court proved of avail only to delay, not prevent, the recognition of th~ republic of the west. The feelings of tho
masses are always s;1fer guides than the selfish instincts of courtiers.
"The people, who arc generally eager for a connection with America, began to talk, ancl paragr1111hs aripcarod in all Lho gazettes in
Dutch, French, ancl German, containing a thousand ·ridiculous conjectures about tho American eml1n.ssador aml his 01:ranil. 0110 of my
children could scarcely go to school without some pompous account of it in the Dutol1 papers. I had beon long onongh in this country to
see tolerably well where the balance lay, an<l to know that America was so much respected by all parties tliat no one wonlcl claro oJTor nny
insult to her minister as soon as he should be known. I wrote my memorial and presented it in English, Dutol1, and ]'rench. 'l'ho1·<1 was
immediately the most universal and unanimous approbation of it expressed in all companies, pamphlets, and nowspapors, aml 110 criticism
ever appearecl against it.

While Jlrfr. Adams was waiting the slow endeavors of the states general to arrive at unanimity, the province of
Friesland, one of the states, took the resolution to recognize him as minister on her own account. The prnvinces
and cities of Holland seem to have possessed the right of acting thus independently, eYen in matters affectiug their
foreign ~elations, each being, according to Mr. .A.dams, considered as an independent republic.* It wonld appear
to .American ideas that such a system would subject the nation to the inconvenience of lrning at r111y time involved
in war, against its will, by the acts of some one member of the confederacy. This action of the proYiuco of Friesland
was taken by Mr. Adams as indicating the result of his application to the states general. "Frioslnnd is said to be
a sure index of the national sense. The people'of that province have ever been famous for the spirit of liberty.
The feudal system never was admitted among them, they ~ever would submit to it) and they have lHeserved those
privileges which all others have long since surrendered." t One of the ancient statutes of Friesland, coming down
from the days of paganism, declarecl that the people should he free "as long as the winds blow and the world
stands"· The Friesians are the nearest blood-relations of the Anglo-Saxon race.
Mr. A.dams was not mistaken in his supposition that the action of Friesland indicatecl that of th<:l states general.
The vote by wh~ch h~ was received was taken in that proviuce in February; in March, 1782, the states of Ilollancl
voted to ~ecogmze him, and ?n the 23d of April th~ir ''high mightinesses, the states general," appointed a committee
to negotiate a treaty of mmty and commerce with Mr. Adams,+ as the representative of the United Sti1tcs of
.A.:nerica, almost exactly on.e year after he had received his commission in that capacity. Dnring this long c1eliber~
at10n Mr. .A.dams llad c?ntmued bis un~uccessful effort~ to obtain a loan, having applied, among others, to the
house ?f Joh~ de Neu~v11Ie & Sons. This John cle Neufville had at one time been negotiating with Dr. Franklin
at.Pans, offermg to raise a la~ge sum for the United Colonies, on condition that the title to all the 1ntbUo lands 'in
this eou~try .be mad~ ove1· to him, a proposition the audacity of which must nave amazed the doctor. He was very
p:ofnse m hrn i)rom1ses to l\Ir. Adams, bqt very unsuccessful in placing the loan. .All that wns obtained through
his house wa8 3,000 guilders, about $1,200.
*Adams' Works. vol. vii, p. 523.

tlbid,, p. 539.

---:-::::-:------"----------Hbicl., p. 573.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

311

.After the recognition of the United States, however, and the opening of the negotiations for a treaty of amity and
commerce, the difficulties vanished. The surrender of Lord Cornwallis, October, 1781, hacl also a good effect on
American credit. It became evident in the spring of 1782 that Great Britain would be compelled to acknowledge
the independence of the United States. Mr. .Adams. applied, in May, 1782, to the firms of Wilhelm & Jan Willink,
N. & J. van Staphorst, and De la Lande & Fynje, who, after some preliminary negotiation, agreed to raise the
money. The Willinks and Van Staphorsts thus became, and long continued, the :financial agents of the United
States in Holland. ]for more than forty years they remained our European bankers, much to our advantage and
probably to their own. During all this long period, their financial honor remained unsullietl and their good faith
unbroken. Years afterwards they purchased from the state of New York a large body of land, which became
known as the "Holland land purchase", now a rich agricultural district in western New York.
The united firms offered a loan of 5,ooo,ooo guilders ($2,000,000), to run for teu years, at 5 per cent. interest,
tlien to be redeemed in five years, by paying each year a fifth part. As compensation for raising this money they
asked 4! per cent., to include all the expenses, except· a charge of 1 per cent. for paying out the annual interest
and a charg·e of 2- per cent. on the final redemption. To this last item Mr. Adams refused to accede. He
offered them 4i} per cent. to cover all charges except the 1 per cent. on the annual interest received and paid by
them. To this they agreed, and the contract was closed, varying in no other particular from their first proposition.
Five formal contracts for i,000,000 guilders each, numbered from 1 to 5, were drawn up, "as advised by the ablest
lawyers and most experienced notaries," setting forth these terms, with a great deal of verbiage, but which, as
Mr. Adams observes in one of his letters, "meant only that the money having been borrowed must be paid." The
contract was concluded June 11, and the five formal documents were confirmed by Oongress September 14, 1782.*
The placing of the loan went on meanwhile without waiting for the confirmation.
It appears that Mr. Adams 11ad small hopes of obtaining the money very soon. In one of his letters he says: t
Although I was obligocl to ongago with them to open tho loan for live mi11ions of guilder~, I clo not expect wo shall obtain that sum
If wo got a million and a half by Christmas it will be more than I expect.

for a long time.

The united firms, however, were more successful than he hoped. By the middle of August they were able to
advise the Continental Congress that 1,300,000 florins awaited their' order, besides reserving 200,000 guilders to
meet bills of exchange which had already been drawn. By the end of the year they had raised 1,S00,000 guil<lers,
notwithstanding the fact that money was very scarce, owing to the demand caused by the war in which ]'rrmce,
Spain, Holland, the United States, and England were engaged. During the year 1783 the smn of 1,400,000
guilders was paid into the hands of the bankers of the United States, although all the warring m1tions, and some
not engaged in the fight,. were striving to raise loans in the market of Holland.
Mr. Adams wrote to Secretary Livingston, July 28, 1783 ::j:
I havo groat pleasm·e in assuring yon that thorn is not ono foreign loan opon in this republic which is in as good credit ancl goes so
<1niok as mine. The empress of Russia oponed a loan ol' five millions about tho same time that I opened mine. She is far from having
oht.ained three mi'llions of it. Spain opened a loan with tho house of Uoii.o, at tho same timo, for two millions only, a-ml you may depeml
upon it it is vory far from being full. Not one-qua-rtor part of tho lonn of Franco, u11on lifo-rcnts, aclvantageous its it is to the lender,
is full. " • • You will see i1crsons ancl letters in America t.lm!; will affirm tl1at, tho SpaniBh loan is full, ancl that France ancl Spaiu'
can havo what money they please hero. Bcliovo mo, this is all stock-Jobbing gnsconacl<l. I have maclo very piirtioular inquiries, 1mcl flncl
tho foregoing account to be the truth. OJ' till tlte 80118 oj' nf'lln, I belie1io llw slouk-jobbvrs aro the greatest liars.

Congress appears, during the negotiations, to have made some shipments of produce to Holland, as the
united firms acknowledge, in December, 1783, the receipt and sale "of the cargo of tobacco of tlie ship Sally".
Notwithstanding these shipments and the large amount received on the loan, however, Congress was so pressed for
means, as to dra,w billR of exchange faster than money could be obtained to meet them, so that bills to the amount
of 1,250,000 guilders went to protest. In this emergency the Messrs. Willink and their co-partners advised Mr.
Adams that, owing to the great demand for money, and France having determined to open a new loan of one
hundred millions on better terms than those offered by the United States, it woulcl be necessary to either authorize
a new loan, at higher rates, or to ofter a higher interest on that which had already been placed on the market. It
was finally determined to authorize a new loan while the negotiations for money nuder the old contracts still went
ou. During the year 1784 the sum of 1,488,000 guilders was received under the contracts for five millions; in 1785,
1M,ooo; and in 1786, 118,000 guilders, making up a total of 5,ooo,ooo. This money was all repaid at the time
provided for in the five contracts.
HOLLAND LOAN OP 1784.
On account of the demand for money in Holland in the year 1783, caused by the fact that nearly every nation
in Europe was seeking loans at the same time, the subscriptions to the 5,ooo,ooo loan, first n~gotfated by Mr.
Adams, came in but slowly. .At the same time there was extreme necessity for money to save the credit of the
United States, already endangered by the fact that drafts for nearly 1,300,000 guilders in excess of the amount
already raised in Holland had been drawn by Robert Morris, the superintendenb of finance, part of which drafts had
"Journals of Congress, yo.l. iv, Appenclix1 Jl• 21..

t Adnms' Works, vol, vii, p. 599.

Ubid., vol. viii, p. 118.

'

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEffl1En~·EsS.
already reached Europe. The receipt of advices of these drafts in November, 1783: by the united firms of Wilhelm & ·
Jan Willink, Nie. & Jacob van Staphorst, and De la Lande & Fynje, then financial agents and bankers oft.he United
States in Europe, so alarmed them, that, although the intelligence was received on Sunday, a meeting· of the
co-partners was called on the afternoon of that day to consider the state of affairs. It was found that there were but
400 000 florins on hand to meet drafts for 1,2501000 guilders ($5001000). An express was immediately <lispiitehecl
witi1 the information to J\fr. A.dams, who was then in London, and a letter sent to Dr. Franklin in Paris, a.sking for
assistance. Mr. A.dams hastened to Amsterdam as soon as he could leave London, encountering a stormy passu.go
across the German ocean in the dead of winter, but arriving too late to save the bills from protest. A imrt of
these bills were payable in March, and the rest, the largest part, in May, 1784. Though too htte to save them from
protest for non-acceptance, an immediate and determined effort to raise the money before they became due was
made, and was successful. It was apparent that but little could be hoped from the five million loan, whicl1 wai:i
still on the~market, while wealthier nations than the United States were not only pressing for loans, but o11bring
higher terms than Mr. A.dams had offered. It w~s necessary to present additional inducements, and thoso whieh
were determined on were rather extraordinary, causing the transaction, in fact, to assume the character imrtly of' n
loan ancl partly of a lottery. It is evident that l\fr. A.daims almost des1mired of effecting anything. In a. lotter to
Benjamin Franklin, of Jannary 24, 1784, he says:*
I should look backwith less chagrin upon the disagreeable pas$age from Lonclon, if we hacl snccootlecl iu obt1tining the oh,jC1ot of it;
but I find that I am here only to be a witness that .American credit in this republic is cload, never to riso again, at least nutil tho Unit:t!tl
States shall all agreo upon some plan of revenue, and make it certain that interest and principal will be 11aicl. Thero has helln Hllltl'Ofl 1m
obligation sold since tho news of tho mutiny of ~oldiers in Philadelphia, and tho diversity of sentiments among tho Stntos nlwut; tho phtu
of illlJ)OSt.

It was at first determined to apply to the regency of the city of Amsterdam, in hope~1 that, to prevent It imniu
among a community whose interests were so entirely commercial, they might be induced to aclvnnco tho mOJH\y,
hut this application was refused. The next idea was to raise the interest, on the obligations still nnsohl, to () 1ior
cent., but even this was thought to be insufficient, and Mr . .Adams seems to have considerc(l himst~li:' bm11Hl hy tho
authorizing act of Congress, which limited. the interest to G per cent. It was finally detei•1n:inrnl to phtco n lHIW
loan on the market for 2,000,000 guilders at 4 per cent. per annum, and to clistrilmte among 1;110 snhscrih1•rs 71v
lot, in subsequent years, obligations of the United States for G90,000 guilders, as a bonus or premium on tho loan.
These obligations were to bear interest at 4 per cent., unless paicl by the United States in crtsh within six rno11tlu;,
The loan was to run for seventeen years, then to be redeemable by annual payments, to he complot0<l in six y<>m·s,
and as an additional inclncemQnt "gratifications", amounting to from 5 to 10 per cent., were to bo 1iaid n.t th(I tiurn
of redemption, to the holders of all the original certificates. It is difficult to make tho transaction elnn.r wit,Jumt;
quotin~ a large part of. the original contract, which will be found in the Appendix to Journals of 0011greHH, vol. i\r,

page 2o.

* ~
* * That for tho advantage of the persons who are parl;icipators in tl1o n,bove-montiono<l ol11ig1Ltio111-1 en• houilM of
participation, a certain number of obligations or bonds, each ufl,000 guilders, yiolcling likewise an intoroat of four in tho hnutlrnil in
the_ year, shall be distribu~ed at t~e n~dermentioned periocls, as premi~ms to tho bearers of such numbers as shall lrnve i~ right IJ.lHl !Jo
entitled thereto by a drawmg, which is to be three months before, and m the J)resonce of a notary puhlio aml witno~sos.
FIRST OF FEBRUARY. 11

Onpltal.

1785, 50 obligations in all ..• ___ . ___ ........... __ ...•. ____ . GO, 000
1767, GO obligations.in aU ••• ~ ---- -----· ·----· ·--- •••••••• 60, 000
1789, 70 obligations in all·---·----· . __ ... -·---- ...... __ __ 70, 000
li91, 00 obligations in all . ___ .. _. __ ...• ___ . _. _. _.... _. __ . 00, 000

011plt11l.

17931 100 obligations in all .. _••.•••• ,_ •••• ___ ••••••• _•••• 100, 000
1705, 120 obligations iu all .•·•.•• _•. _. _. _ • _•••••••••• _•••• l!JO, 000
1797, 200 obligations i11 au -- .. ·----· . --. -. '-.... ·- -. -..... 200, 000

That the obligations or bonds arising fr~lll this drawing shall be likewise signed by Messrs. Wilhelm & Jau WH!ink, NfolwlttR &.
J acoh van St~pborst, and De la ~an de_& FynJe, or tho successors of the saic1 gentlemen for the ti mo being, ancl <1nly u.ttesiiclcl hy a notitt•y
unlcos th~ Umted Stat:s of America might choose to pay off nnd discharge, in ready money, tlrn J)rBminms 1;lrns drawn six. rnon(:Ju; ttfl:o;
the clrawm~, to do which the ho~orable n~pea~er by these J)resents reserves the liberty for tho ahovo-rnontimw<l Stutes ol' AnHu•ir.tt. 'l'hat
the r~cleemmg of the above-m~ntioned obligations or bonds of 11articipation, as also of tho I>rcminms falling th<ll'Bi;o in consiiqtwnco ol' It
drawrng to be done annually, m the :presence of a notary public and witnesses, shall ho accomiilished ut the :followit1g lHll'iot1a: ·
On the 1st of February, 1801, shall be redeemed ............. ., .................. -........................ -........................ " ........ .
With the obligations distributccl anuo 1785 ...... -.... - .. -- -.............................. -.... -............................................ . 2GO,OOO
li0,000
With a gratification at 4 per cent
- - - - :lOO, 000
---- ------ ---- •--- --•• -- ---•.• --••..• ---•. -• --.. - - -••• -. - -- --•••. - -• - - - • - 12, 000
On the 1st of February, 1802, shall be redeemed
=
·· ·-·--- -----· · -- ---· ·- · - -- --- · ·- -- •· -·· · ·• · • -· ·· · - 21i0, 000
With the obligations distrilmted in 1787
.... - ..................................................................... - .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •

With a. gratification of 5 J)er cent .... ____ ·--·

()0, 00()

- - :no, ooo

................................. --....... --........................................................ .

"Adams' Works, vol. viii, p. lil.

lU,500

HISTORY OF 'THE NATIONAL LOANS.

313

. On tho 1st of February, 1803, shall be redemue(l. •...•. _.. . • • . • . . . • . .. . . . . . . . • .. . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . 250, 000
With the obligations distributed in 1789........................................................... 70,000
.
.
.
- - - 320, 000
With a gratification of 6 per cent . . . • . . • • • . . . . . • . . . . . . . •.• ••. . • .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .• ... . 19, 200
Ou the 1st of February, 1804, shall be, redeemed................................................... 250, 000_ __
With the obligations clistribntetl in 1701.. •••. .... .... .... .... ... ..... .... .. . .. . .... .. • ... .•.• ... . 90, 000
- - 3 4 0 000
With a gratification of 71)er cent ........................................ , ................................. 23'.800
Ou the 1st of February, 1805, shall be redeemed ........................... , ....................... 250, 000_ __
With the obligations clistrib,uterl in 1793 .......................................................... 100,000
- - - 350 000
,
With a gratification of 8 per cent......................................................................... 2s:ooo
On the 1st of l!'ebrnary, 1806, shall be redeemed .................................................. 250, 000_ __
With tho obligations distributed in 1795 ........................................................... 120, 000
.
- - - 370 000
With n. grn.tific11tion of 9 per cent...... . . • • • .. . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. • . . .. . . . • . .. • . . • .. . . .. 33: 300
On the 1st. of February, 18071 shn.11 be redeemed ............................................... : .•. 500, 000
Ancl tho oblign.tions clistributccl in 1797 ........................................................... 200, 000
---700,000
With II grn.tificatiou of 10 per cent ................................................................ ~... . . .. 70, 000
That for tl1e payment of tho yearly interest, aml the redeemings or liquicln.tions to bo (lone in consequence of the above-mentioned
thawing, of which n. clue publication shall bo made by n.clvertisement in the public nowspapers, the honomblo a1ipem:er, in his aforesaid
q nality, and. thus in the nn.me of tho United States of America, promises n.ml engn.ges to remit the necessa:ry moneys thereto, to tho abovement.ionecl gentlmnou, Messrs. ·wnhelm & Jitn W"illink, Nicolas & Jacob v!Ln Staphorst, n.ml De la Ln,nde & Fynje, and their successors
in good bills of exchange, products of America, or in'rcn.c1y money, without any abatement or doc1uetion. " • "
'

This contract was signed in Amsterdam, March O, 187'.f,, anu confirmed by Oongress February 1, 1785, " at the
city hall in New York." The United States by its terms were, for a principal of 2,000,000 guilders received, to
return 2,801,800 .
.Mr. Adams thought the contract involved an enormous sacrifice, and expresses the fear that he ''should
be blamed by numbers of versons "· He wrote to Benjitmin Franklin before concluding the bargain that he despaired
of obtaining the money "without agreeing to terms so disadvantageous as to be little better than the final protest
of the bills"· It is possible, in view of the distress he mm1ifestetl u,t the time, that he had not submitted tlrn terms
and his fears to the cn,lm logic of arithmetic. Oomputations show that if the United States cashed the obligations
distributed by lottery within six months after the drawing, as they had the privilege of doing, and, as they actually
did, the 4 per cent. interest on the loan, witlt bonus and gratifications added, amounted to less than Oil; per cent. annual
interest. He had expressed himself as willing and bad been authorized by Oongress to pay 6 per cent. interest; he
was therefore sacrificing· less than three-quarters of one per cent.
Benjamin Franklin, in commenting on the affair in one of his letters to l\fr. .Adams, says : "I hope these
. mischievous events will at length convince our people of the truth of what I long since wrote to them, that the
fonndation of crec7it must be laii.1. ctt home," a golden maxim for all financiers, public and private.
The united firms were to receive on this loan, as on the five million loan, a commission of 4j! per cent.
to cover all expenses. Tllo money was raised in time to save the bill$ of exchange from being returned to the
United States; in fact, more than I,000,000 of guilders were received as au advance before the contract was signed;
ancl the whole ·2,000,000 were obtained within the yea.r. It was all redeemed at the time and on the terms required
by the contract.
HOLLAND LO.AN OF 1787.
This loan appears to have been contracted in order to raise money with which to pay the .interest on the
previous loans in Holland, made in the years 1782 and 1784. The interest which hacl before fallen clue had been :rm\d,
partly by remittances from America and partly by some portions of the amonnt receiv~d on the original loans .
.Although the experiment of issuing vast amounts of paper money hacl proved so disastrous, yet the policy of the
government still ran in the same course, and a new emission of paper currency was afloat, which, on its face, w.as
redeemable' by the different States, individually, but inclorsed by. the United SbJites, and was, by an act of March
18, 1780, to be issued at a not greater rate than one dollar of tl1e new for each twenty of· the old. The idea of
replacing an inconvertible and valueless paper currency by another issue of a smaller amount, equally inconvertible
and almost as valuelesss, was not a new one in finance. It is one of the regular stages on the downward road of
paper money, as may yet be.forcibly shown, when a financial Gibbon shall arise to write the hi1;1tory of its decline·
and fall.
Such imposts and duties· as the Oontinental Oongress was able to command or persuade, from the thirteen
very independent' statesi were mostly paid in this new cl.urency, which, being wortbless abroad, rendered the

314

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

payment of debts due in foreign countries by Congress a difficult mat~er. Yet this new Continental currency ~mst
h e circuiated with some freedom at home· for a letter of Thomas Pmckney to John Adams, July 10, 1787, speaks
0 ;:ntelligence having been received of att~mpts to counterfeit it by bi!ls ~rinted i.n Great Britain. A cur~·en~y
worth counterfeiting is evidently considered of some value. No defi.mte mformat10~ as to the amou~t of tlm1
currency issued appears on the records. It circulated at a considerable discount,, until afte: the adopt10n of. the
present Constitution, under the names of the "New emission" and "Oontinen tal bills of credit':, aiTid was ~·mr~I~l·lly
redeemed by being received in subscriptions to the stocks which were created. to fund the domestic debt. Hi~nulton,
in his report on the public credit, Jauuary 14, 1790, estimated the unliqmdated amount of the domest10 debt,
consisting "chiefly of the continental bills of credit", at $2,000,000.* In January, 179G, he stated tlw amount of
these bills for which the United States were liable at $90,574.t
It was the financial difficulties experienced under the old system of government that, more than anything else,
brought about the calling of the convention which, in 1787, framed the present Constitution of the United. States.
The Continental Congress possessed sufficient authority to carry on war, to make peace, to conclucle treaties, autl
to carry on most of the functions of government; but to do all this required a revenue, and for this they were dependent
on the will of the states. It was evident that such a system could not last. At the time Mr. Aclams began the
negotiations for the loan, delegates to the constitutional convention had been chosen in most of the states, n.nd the
convention was in session before the loan was completed.
The :firms of W. & J. Willink and N. & J. van Staphorst, the bankC1rs of the United States in IIollaml,.
finding that the money for the June interest on the clebt of the United States was not likely to he forthcoming in
time, proposed to John Adams, who was then minister to England, and was at the time in London, the raising of
a loan to meet it, and forwarded to him, May 18, 1787, their definite proposals, as follows :+
AMSTEHDAM, .'Jfa,y 18, 1787,
Agreeably to what wo had tho honor to acguaiut your excellency the 15th instant, we have oxertllu ·ourselves to proenro money for
payment of the interest uue the 1st proximo by the Unite<l States-a matter very diffienlt to be accomplishod, as wo lrncl 1tgainst ns tho
late news from America, no immediate fiatteriJ1g prospects, and au excessive scarcity of money hero at present. vVo luwe, howovor1
been successful enough to persuade the undertakers to subscribe to a new loan for ono million of florins, u11011 the following couclitious:
One thousand bonds for one thousand guilders each, to he issuecl 011 tho same conditions as tho precocling loan of' :five por contnm,
the interest commeneing the first of June.
Of which thousand bonds, two hundred and forty to be immediately nogotiated to tho subscribers; the ono-half of t,Jwir amonn1·, tn
be paid upon tho delivery of the bonds; tho undertakers reserving to themselves tho faculty of taking one mouth's credit for pnymenf; of
the remaining half.
The surplus seven hundred and sixty bonds are to remain iu our custody, subject to be delivcrctl to tho undertA;kors1 ca.oh 0110 in
proportion to his subscription, at the same rate of those actually nogotiatecl; at tho expiration of whioh irnriod those on lmll(l will ho ttt
the free disposal of Congress.
Congress shall not be at liberty to make any further money negotfations iu this country until tho surplus soveu h tnuh·ocl nn<l sixt1y
bonds shall be placec1, or before the end of the eighteen months they are to lie at the choice of tho undertakers to purclutso thllm.
Such are tho best conditions we havn been able to obtain; ancl, although the money will cost i;lrn Unitocl States eight per cent;.,
including premium, our commission, brokerage, aml charges, we cleem ourselves fortunate to 11avo l>Mn thus able 'f;o face tho Juno
interest-an object your excellency justly views of the highest importance to tho credit anclintcresf; of tho U11itecl Stai;es.
By this arrangement we shall be obliged to advance part of the interest until tho urnlertakors shall have complotecl 1mymcnt for
the engaged bonds, upon which a<lvances wo tlo not doubt the Uuitecl States will most reaclily ndmit our chnrges of interest.
We endeavored all in our power t.hat the money should bo receivecl by us i11 ?'1fc6piss6s, aml thus lenvo yon tho timo to visit this
country at your convenience to 1>ass the uouds; but the uuclcrtakers have insisted, as an itbsolntc ccuclition, that ·they shonlcl llll 11ablo
to pay only on receipt of the bonds signecl- and lJerfectcd by yon, so that there is au inclispousablo noeossUy for your excollc1rny's sc1iting
out for this country, with tho full 1Jower yon have from Congress, by the packet whioh will leave Ifarwioh next Wednostlay, or n:I; lntoHt
on Saturday the 26th instant, when we will have everything ready, that your excellency mny be able to return by the nox·(; or following
packet.
We request your excellency to be assured nothing in our power was left untried to sparo you this jaunt so suddenly Jmt sinco tho
payment of foe June interest entirely depends upon this exertio11 of your e:xcello11cy, we aro ccnfidoll't it will be 111~dcrt~kon with
alacrity; and, upon this conviction, wo have assumed to advertise the payment of the interest on the first of J nuo w hlch is in u,ll our
newspapers of this day.
'
We are respectfully, &e.,
WILHELM AND JAN WILLINIC.
NIC. A:ND JACOBVAN STAPHORST.

Mr. Adams held full powers to rais~ l?ans. in Hollan~ within tile .limit of $10,000,000, under the antborizing
act of October 26, 1779, and. the comm1ss10n rnsued to him by Congress. He agreed to the terms, but asko<l
Congress to confirm them, wlnch was done. He wrote to the Secretary of State, Mr. Jay, June 16, 1787 :§
• }11closed is ~copy of the translati?u. from the .Dutch int~ English of the contract entered into by me ill behalf of tho Unitccl States,
by '.Jrtue of thell' full power, for a m1lhou of gmlders. This mcaHure became absolutely necessary to prevont tho totn.1 rniu of thcfr
~recht and the. greatest injustice to their former creditors, who are possessed of their obligations· for the failure iu pnymeut of tho

mterest.but for on~ day would, in Ho~and, cause these oblig~tions to depreciate in value like paper ~ouey.
It is of .great importan~e :hat thJS contract should receive a prompt ratification Ju Congress, and be rctransmittecl to .Amstorclllm ns
~oon as possible: Whether this loan may not enable Congress or their board of treasury to raise the erec1it of thoir own l1l1l)Cl' at homo
~n son:e degree, is for ~em to consider, and whether the board of treasury may not purchase procluce to nd vantago and contract to lllWO
~t delivered free of all- risks and charges at Amsterdam, an cl pay for it in bills of exchange, I know not.
"American State Papers, "Finance/' vol. i, p. 19.
l Annals of Congress, 1795, Appendix, p. 1:349.

tAdams' Works, vol. viii, p. 440,
§Ibid, p. 441.

315

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

The shipment of American procluce under the authority of Congress, to meet demands in Europe, appears to
have been a favorite idea among the American agents abroad, and hacl often been acted on, large ·amounts of
tobacco, &c., having been sent to Beaumarchais and others. It was continued by the new government after the
adoption of the Constitution of 1787, and extended to the purchase of cargoes of coffee and sugar. The contract
for this loan, as confirmed by Congress, October 11, 1787, will be found in Journals of Congress, vol. iv, Appendix,
p. 27. By its terms the loan was to run for ten years, at 5 per cent. per annum interest, then to be redeemable in
ft rn equal annual payments. It would appear from the letter of Willink aml others that the United States received
bm; 92 guilders for each 100 of obligations, as they state the amount of expenses at 8 per cent. It was all
redeemecl as provided for in the contract. The 'firm of De la Lande & Fynje who had been concerned in the
previous loans had nothing to do with this; before the negotiations commenced, they had failed, owing the United
States a considerable sum, only a part of which was recovered.
HOLLA.ND LOAN OF 1788.
This loan was negotiated to meet the expenses of the United States in Europe, and to afford a :financial basis
on which to start the new government at home. The new Constitution was to go into operation when ratified by
nine states. Some of the states voted to accept it in 1787, but the vote of the ninth state, New Hampshire, was not
secured until July, 1788. It was known in Europe, however, early in that year, that it would be ratified, and as the
Oontinental Congress was utterly without funds to turn over to its successors, money must be provided in some wa~T·
Thomas Jefferson vms then minister of the United States at the court of Versailles, and with Mr. Adams, then
about to return to America, condncted the negotiations. His account of the affair leaves little to be desired to make
the matter clear.
"Among the debilities of tho government of the Confederation, no one was more clistinguished or more distressing than the utter impossibility of obtaining, from the states, the moneys necessary for tho irn,yment of clebts, or oven for th() orclinary expenses of the government.
Some contributecl a little, some less, ancl some nothing; ancl the last furnishecl at length an excuse for the first to do nothing also. ifr.
Aclams, while residing at the Hague, hacl a general authority to borrow what sums might 1,e requisite for ordinary and necessary expenses.
Interest on the imblie debb ancl the maintenance of the diplomatic establishment in Europe had boon habitually provicled in this way. He
was now elected Vice-president of the United St11tes, was soon to return to America., ancl had reforrecl our bankers to me for future counsel
on our affairs in their hands. But I had no powers, no instruct.ions, no means, ancl no familiarity with the subject. It had always been
exclusively,uncler his management, except as to occasional 11ncl partial deposits in tho hancls of Mr. Grauel, banker in Paris, for special a.nu
local purposes. Those last had been e:x:h11usted for some time, and I ha<l frequently prcssecl the treasury board to replenish this particular
deposit, as Mr. Grand now refused to make further advances. They answered cauclic1ly thn.t no funcls could be obtainecl until tho new
government should get into action and have time to make its arrangements. Mr. Adams had received his appointment to the court ot
J,ondon while ongagccl 11t Paris, with Dr. Frnnklin aml myself, in the negotiations under our joint commissions. Re hall repaired thence
to London witl1out returning to the Hague to take lo11ve of tlmt government. He thought it necessary, however, to do so now before
ho should leave Europe, and 11ceorcli11gly went there. I learned his departure from Loudon by a letter from Mrs. Adams, received on
the very clay on which he would arrive at the Hague. A consultation with him, ancl some provision for the future, was inc1ispensable
wbile we coulcl yet avail ourselves of his 110WOrs, for when they would be gone WO shoulcl be 1Vit;l10ut resource. I was claily dunned by a.
company who had formerly made 11 sm11ll loan to the Unitecl Stu;tes, the principal of which was now lrncome clue, ancl our bankers in
Amstcl'Clam hacl noLifiecl me that the interest on om gen oral clebt wonlcl be expected iu June; t.hat if we failecl to pay it it woulcl bci clecmccl
an act ofbankruptcy, aml woulcl effectually destroy the creclit of' the Unitecl States 11nc1 all foture prospect of obtah1ing money there; that
the loan they had been anthorizecl to open, of which 11 thircl only was filled, hall now ceasecl to get forward, ancl renderccl clespcrate that
ho1le of' resource. I saw that there was not a moment, to lose, aucl set out for the rfogue on tho second morning after receiving tho informn.tion of Mr. Aclams' ,journey. I went the clireot road by Louvres, Senlis, Roye, Pont St. Maxence, Bois le Due, Go11rnay, Peronnc, Cambray,
Bouchn.in, Valencicnnes, Mons, Bruxelles, Malines, Antwer1), :Morclick, 11ml Ilottcrclttm, to the Hague, whcro I hn.ppily found Mr. Adams.
He conourrecl with me at once in opinion th11t somothing must be clone, ancl that we ought to risk ourselves on cloing it without instructions, to Rave 'the credit of the United States. We foresaw that before the new government could be alloptcd, assemblocl, eat11blish its
Jlnancial system, get the money into the treasury, and place it in Europe, considerable time would elapse; that therefore we had bettor
provicle at once for the years '88, 189, and '90, in order to place our government at its ease and ou,r credit in security during that trying
interval. We set out, therefore, by the way of Leyden, for Amsterclam, where we 111Ti:vec1 on t.he 10th. I hacl proparccl au estimate,
showing that :
Florins.
531, 937 10 0

There woulcl be necessary for the year '88 .••••.... - ••..• ·...... -........ --••••..• -..• - -- .•.••..•.. - ••
'89 .. - --.•.•....•. --.•• - .••• --.......... -.. - .. - ........... -•.
'90 •- - - ..•• - • -.• --...••. -•... -.......... - - .• - - - - . -.......... .

538, 540 0 0
473, 540 0 0

Tot111. .................................................................. _.••.••.••....•••••• 1, 544, 017 10 0
]'lo11ns.

To meet this, the b11nkers had in hand •...•... : .•...• -- ...................... --· -- .. -· 79, 268 2 8
Auel the unsolcl boncls would yielcl ...... - --..... ---....... -......................... -- 542, 800 0 O
Leaving a deficit of:..................................................... ···· .......... ···-··
We proposocl then to borrow a million, yielding ... -.................................... -· ... - . · ·-· ·

.

Which would leave a small clcficienoy of ............. -: .......................... - - ............... .

G22,0G8 2 8
921,949 7 4
920, 000 0 0

-----1,949 7 4
===

Mr. Adams accordingly executed 1,000 bonds for 11000 florins each, and deposited them in the hands of our bankc1·s, with in~tructions,
however not to issue them until Congress should ratify the measure. This clone, he returned to London, ancl I set out for Paris; ancl as
'
.
" " ..
nothing urgent
forbade it, I cleterminecl to return along the banks of the Rhine to Strasburg, and thence str1'ke off t'o p ans.

* Jeffel'f!on's Works, vol. i, p. 82, et seq.

316

VALUNI1ION, TAXNI1ION, AND PUBLIC INDEBrrEDNESS.

There is one error in the above, apparentiy an error of memory. Mr. Jefferson speaks of Mr. ~dams as h~viug
been elected Vice-president. The time of which he speak~ is March or April, 1~88. But the el:ct10u .for :ros~de~rt
and Vice-president hatl not then taken place; in fact, did not take place until January, 1780, and its 1esult Wits
unknown even to J\Ir. Adams until March of that year, as the following letter. shows:*
'
'
Nmw Yomc, March 4, 1789.
111Y DEAR Fmmm: r find, on inriuiry, that you are elected Vice-president, having three or four times the number ~f vbto·s· of 1wy
other candidate. Maryland throw a 1rny their votes on Colonel Harrison, aml South Carolll1a on Governor Rn~leclge, bemg, ."'vJ.t,h son~o
other States which were not unanimous for you, apprehensive that this was a necessary step to pwve~t your elcot1on ~o the ch~a·. . In ~·~111:1
point they were mist.aken, for tho Presiclent, as I am informCLl from pretty gopcl authority, has a uuammons vote. I~ rn tho umyo1·stu 'v rnh
of all that I have conferred with, aml, incleed, their expect::ttion, t.h::tt both General "Washington aml yonrsol~ will accept, n.nd shonhl
either refuse, it will h:i,ve :i, very disagreeable effect. The members present mot to clay ill the city hnll; there bemg ltl>out eloveu souators
and thirteen representatiYes, and not constituting a riuorum in either honse, they adjouruecl till to-~orrow.
.. •
'frs Gerry ancl the JadiesJ"oin me in sincere re"anls to yourself, your lacly, Colonel and Mrs. Sm1t;h; and be assured I remain, &,<J.
JJ • •
"'
E. GERH.Y.

His election to the office of Vice-president in 1780 certainly was not the cause of Mr. Adams leaving Enropo
early in 1788. The contract for this loan, as ratified by Congress, provided that t.he snm of 1,00~,000 guilders sl1onl<l
be Toaned to the Uuitecl States for ten ;years at 5 per cent. per annum, then to be redeemable m tlve eqmtl numml
payments of 200,000 guilders eaclt, and the 'united States were to ltave the option of recle~ming either .by l>illR of
exchange, American products, or ready money.t The amount of' discount and expenses pmtl by the Umte<.1 Sta.tos
does not appear.
HOLLAND LOAN OF 1790.
The government of the United States, under the' present Constitution, went in to operation April 30, 178!). ~rhe
first Wednesday in l\Iarch, which in that year occurred on the f'ourtlt of the month, hacl been :fixed, by an aet of the
Continental Congress, as the day for its commencement, but it was found impossible to get the members of Ooug-rt~ss
together in time. "The impotence of the late government, added to the dilatoriness inseparable from its perploxml
mode of proceeding on the public lnrniness, and its continued session, had proclnced :m1ong the mmnbers of' Oo11gTtiss
1mch a habitual disregard of i,:>nnctuality in their attendance on that body that, ftlthongh the new governmont was
to commence operations on the fourth of March, 1789, a Honse of Representatives was not formed until Lhn 1lrsi,
nor a Senate until the sixth, of .April.":j: Soon after the organization of the two ho'nses the. votes for ProsWont
and Vice.president were counted. General Washington's election was offichtlly announced to him n1; Mmm1;
Vernon on the 14th of April. Ile reacbctl the city of New York, tllen the seat of government, on tho 2:Jcl n111ll was
iuaugurated on the 30th. John Adams appea,rs to have been previously inaugnrated Vice.presi<lell'(~, us ho wa:-1
presiding in the Senate on the 21st of March, though there was then no quorum present.
Probably no new government ever started with more discouraging ftnancial prospects. 'l'hcro was it doliL of
untold millions to be provided for, while there was not a dollar on ltantl even to meet current mq>onses. ~:Ioam1 of
raising revenue from an exhausted ancl impoverished country lta<l J·et to be devised, and those mcm1~, wlwn
invented, could not produce anything for months. There was no treasury depar.trneut, and nothing to put, i11 1~
treasury if one had existed. The board of treasury, instituted hy tlrn Continental Congress, appcmrs to lmvo lwon
still in office, as they were called on by General Washington, in June, 1780, for a statement of their acconul;lil,
but they had no funds, and ltad issued warrants, in anticipation of fntnre revenues, for over $.140,000, which wor<)
afterward paid by the new government. The Treasury Department was created by act of' Congress of Septorn bor
2, 178'9, Alexander Hamilton being appointed Secretary and Sn,mnel Meredith treasnrer. An acb ht;ying <lui;iek'! on
importations was approved July 4, 1789, but no revenue was obtained under this act until September 20, whcm
about $13,000 was rec!'lived. As the only means of meeting current expenses, the Secretrtry negotiated tornporm·y
-Joans from the Bank of New York and Bank of' North America., obtaining in this manner, in September au<l
October, $140,000. This money was nearly all expended in paying the salaries of the President a.ud Yice-prcsidtmt
and the compensation of members of Congress.
.
T~e first payment from the new treasury was made September 26, 1789, and was the sum of $1,000 to G eorgo
Washmgton on account of his salary as President of the United States. The accounts show· t,hat Ge1u~ml
Washington received, from September 26, 1789, to December 27, 1791, on account of his safary as President, t.110
sum of ~72,150, and up to JVIarch 4, 1797, when his term expired; a total of $106,121 on this account. lTo dill
not receive the full sum of $200,000, because his term of office fell short of eight years.
.
The expenditmes for the" year 1789 were estimated by a committee of the House of Roprescnt~ttiYeH at
$8,285,603H, but the greater portio~ of this was for principal. and interest due on the foreign 1111<1 domestic <lobt,
th~ current expens~s of the year bemg estimater~ at but ~6B0,10lff. The committee said that they wel'e nuablo,
fr~m want of sufficient.data, to make an approximate estimate of the revenue which would be realized. It was
evident, however, t~at, while the government was supported principally by temporary loans, it would be impossiblo
to attempt a reduction of tlte tlebt, and no payments on it were made during· the year 1789 except the interest on
the money borrowed in Holland.
'
•.A dams' Works, vol. viii, p. 484.

t Journals of Congress, vol. iv, Appendix.• p. Gl.

I-IrsrroRY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

317

"An act making provision for the debt of the United States" was approved .August 4, 1790 (1 Statutes, 138).
This act provided that the surplus of customs and tonnage duties above the sum of $600,000 should be applied to
the payment of the interest and the reduction of the principal of the foreign debt, and authorized the President to
borrow, on the credit of the United States,· a sum not exceeding $12,000,000, to be devotecl to paying interest,
arrears, and installments on the foreign debt, and to paying off the whole of it, if it could be effected on terms
·
advantageous to the United States.
".An act making provision for the reduction of the public debt" was ap1wovedA.ugust 12, J790 (1 Statutes, 186),
by which the President was authorized to borrow, on behalf of the United States, a sum not exceeding $2,000,000,
at an interest not exceeding 5. per cent., the money so borrowed to be applied to the purchase of the debt of the
United States. These purchases were directed to be made under the direction of the president of the Senate, the
Cliief Justice, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasnr;y, and the Attorney General, for the time being,
any tllree of whom were authorized to cause such purchases to be made.
Under these acts the Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, authoi:ized the houses of W. & J. Williuk,
N. & J .. van Staphorst, and Hubbard to open negotiations for a loan of three million florins or guilders ($1,200,000),
giving them authority to pledge the good faith of the United States for the pa,yment of the interest and the
rnpa.yment of the principal. The contl'act for the money has never been printed, but a translo,tion of the original
is to be found among the "Washington Papers" in the Department of State. It is dated November 12, 1790. It
provided that the loan should be reimbursable within fourteen years, in five annual payments of 600,000 guilders
each, the first pa;yment to be made February 1, 1800, and on that clu.y annually until paid.
Three thousand bonds or obligations of the Unitecl States, for one thousarnl gnil<lers each, were to be issued,
and in the December preceding each annua.l 1)ayment the numbers of six hundred of these were to be drawn by lot,
in the presence of a notary, the numbers so drawn to be reimbursed in the following February. Oou1)ons for the
annual h1terest at 5 per cent. per annum were to be attached to each bond. For commission and all expenses
connected with the loan the United States were to pay 42- per cent. on the principal.
ROLL.A.ND LO.A.N OF M.A.ROH, 1791.
This loan, like the previous one, was contracted under the authority given by the acts of August 4 and 12, 1700.
The Secretary of the Treasury, Septemller 1, 1790, by direction of the llresident, authorized Willia.m Short, then
charge d'affaires at· Paris, to proceed to Amsterdam and endeavor to effect a second loan under these acts. Mr.
Short's instructions will lle found in Hamilton's Works, vol. iv, p. 38. They were to the effect that he shoulcl borrow
for the United States, on the best terms practicable, such sums as would lle necessary to discharge the interest
and such installments of the foreign debt as became due during the year 1791; to employ the houses of Willinks
and tlie Van Stapllorsts unless doubt should lle entertained of their stability ancl influence in the money market1
and to endeavor to reduce the amount of commissions below that which the United States had paid on previous
loans. Mr. Short found no reason to discontinue the :financial relati011s of the United States with the :fil•ms
mentioned. Re met with much difficulty in his efforts to reduce the amount of commissions to be paid, the
bankers representing that but one power in the world, Austria, had obtained more favorable terms than the
"United States, and even in her case the differern;ie was but one-half of one pel' cent. .A.fter some negotiation,
however, the commission and brokerage were reduced to 4 per cent. It was determined to open a loan for two
and a half million of guilders ($1,000,000), at 5 per, cent. interest, the reimbursement to begin in ten years and to
be completecl in five, ~he United States to have the right to reimburse the whole at. an earlier period if deemed
prope:i;,
The brokers, however, when consulted about the time for opening the loan, thought it an unfavorable moment
for making loans in genera.J, and especially for the United States, because .their 5 per cent. loans were below i)ar ·
a1reaclS, owing to many people selling these loans in order to place _their funds in those made by the "liquidated
debt" of the United States, which bore a higher rate of interest. They therefore advised postponing the opening
of the loan until the following February, when it was thought there would be a better state of things in the money
market. This was acccordingly done. The loan was brought on the market February 15, 1791, and was all taken
up within two hours after being published on the exchange-a celerity, of which there had been no instance before
in the loans for any country. The credit of the United States evidently stoocl high in Holland .
.A translation of the original contract, as confirmed by the President, exists among the "Washington Papers" in
the Department of State. It provided that the loan should run for eleven years, at 5 per cent. interest, then to be
redeemable in th1.;, city of .A.msterclam, on the 1st day of March in each year until paid, at' the rate of 500,000 g'tlilders
11er annum, the Unitecl States to have the privilege of reimbursing tlle whole sum or any part thereof at any earlier
elate if they should wish so to do.
Two thousand five .hundred bonds of the United States, for 1,000 guilders each, were to be issued to the
subscribers to the loan, and it was to be determined by lot which of these should be redeemed in any one year.
Redemption of this loan began March 1, 1802, and was completed in 1805, one year sooner than the time fixed
in the contract, the United States having made a partial use of the option allowed.
·

318

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEB'l1EDNESS.
HOLLAND LOAN OF SEPTEMBER, 1791.

Shortly after receiving notice of the successful negotiation of the loan for 2,500,000 guilders of l\'.forch ~ 1 ~91,
l\lr. Hamilton authorized the opening of a third loan under the enaoling acts of August 4 ~nd 12, 1790. . His first
ic1ea was to open one for 3,000,000 guilde!-'s, and in a letter to William Short, who had negotiated the previous loan,
and who was soon after appointed minister at the Hague, he limits him to that amou~1t. . ~r.' Short? hOWlffor,
represented to him that there were times when large sums might be borrowed in Holland ~ith facility, wlnle u,t ot,h~r
times it was difficult to ol>tain small ones, and that, as a large amount was needed, it w?uld he well to t.tl~t'
. dvantage of these favorable moments for procuring it. His letter was submitted to the President, who thought it;
<l
l . l'
t'
1
expedient to remove the restrictions as to the amount, and to authorize Mr. Short "to open, at ns < 1scr<nou, m~n1:1
for the United States at such times and places as he might find advisable, within the limitations of the respoctIYo
laws authorizing these loans".*
.
.
.
Hamilton transmitted the instructions of the President to Mr. Short, adding the qnahficat1011 that: "vV1th
regard to such parts of the principal of our foreign debt as will not fall due till after the year 1792, no loan is to be
opened which will cost the United States, in interest and charges, mor~ than 4~ per cen~. on th? sum actually
received by them. This restriction is founded on an expectation of being able, ere. tlrn.t period n,rr1ves, to borrow
money within that limit."*
·
.
l\fr. Short accordingly opened a loan for 6,ooo;ooo guilders ($2 1400,000), at 5 per cent., dnrmg tho summer of
17Dl, and the money appears to have been obtained without difficulty. No COPN' of the contract is no w to bo fouml~
It appears to have been a loan running for ten years, then to be redeemable in five equal anmm1 pnymout:s ot
1,200,000 guilders each. The charges for commission and brokerage were 4 per cent. The reimlmrsemcmt bcgiiu
in 1802 and was completed in 1805.
ANTWERP LOAN OF 1791.
The idea of opening negotiations for a loan at Antwerp appears to have been first suggested by Gouverneur
Morris, minister of the United States to the Revolutionary government at Paris. In his letter to the Secretary of
the Treasury dated August 17, 1792, he says:
I formerly recommended to l\fr. Short the opening of a loan at Antwerp, and it was attended with tho boat c:fft1<Jfai, for the Cl\}lit!lliHts
of Amsterdam, who had shortly before induced our commissioners to believe that money could not be obtainoil tllore nncler 5 i>or eimt;,,
shortly after let us have it at 4 per cent. This I was sure would happen, for I had been in Holl11nd, had studiecl tho chamotor of tho monoy·
lending people, and made myself acquainted with the manner of transacting business.

Before the subscriptions were concluded it was found that money was obtainable at lower mtos, and a porifon
of the loan (9501000 guilders) was withdrawn from market.
The money obtained was remitted to France for the purpose of paying installments dne 011 tho <foht to tltG
government of that country. The redemption of this loan was, by contract, to have conunenced Decembol' 1, 180~;
but; although the money was ready, owing to some misapprellension on the part of the 1.mnker, was pttid ouly l\'[ay
1, 1803,t causing a loss to the United States of five months' interest. The redemption was com1>lei:ed in 1800 1 tho
United States using the option reserved so far as to anticipate the last payment. Tho American !JallkOl'H in this
transaction at Antwerp were Messrs. 0. J.M. De Wolf & Co., a~d they remained the finmwial agent;s of' iilHl Uui tod
States in that city until the death of .l\fr. De Wolf, in 1806. A copy of the contract for this loan wtts obtainell l>y
the writer in Antwerp in 1874, and its int1'insic value, together with the fact that it has uever before ltpponretl
in print, is sufficient to warrant its insertion.
Copy of the C'ontraot j'01· tlte .A11tw111:p loan of 1.791.
[Translated from the Flemish.]

Thi;; t~tieth da~ of. November, s~v~nteen hunched and ninety•one, befo;re me, John Gerard Deelon, imblio uotary, cluly appoint.till
by the sovereign connc1l of Brabant, res1dmg at Antwerp, and in presence of the witnesses named bnreina·fter personally ap11cnrt1d \Villinm
S~ort, esl]_niro, "charg6 d'aft'aires" of the United States of America at the court of Fran.ca, known by the witnesses as being appointm1 1 by
virtue of a warrant of ~he first of September, of the year seventeen hundred and ninety, by Alexander Hamilton, Socretary of' S tn;to for
the treasury of the United States of America, anthorized to this effect hy an "act of substitution" of the ·bwonty-eighth of August of
th<\ same year, sevente~n hunclred and ninety, by his excellency George Washington, President <>f' foe Uuitecl Statos, iluly em1>owcm1cl by
two acts of Congress of the fourth and twelfth of August, seventeen hundred and ninety, to raise in somo imrt of lQnroiic a oortrd u limifotl
sumo:monoy, aud to conclude forthat:pur11ose anycontractsoreugageme11ts as he maydeemneces1:iary, but iu accordance with ·tho <tommrnnta
deposited at the o.ffice of 0. J. M. De Wolf, banker, of this town, and where they arci to remain for the inspection of tlw money lomlers.
Tho appearer, by :V~tue of his .above-mentionetl comn.dssion, decfores to owe to several persons, for account of tho United States of Amoi·icn, ·
~~1m of. three millions of fiorms of Br~bant exc~ange money, received by him.in his aforesaicl capacity, iu reitlly monny, coufornmhly t~
abo;:ce1pts atta~hed to t~e bonds me11t10ned heremafter, each of one thousancl florins of Brabant exchangti money, '!'he appnaroi·, in his
said cap~c1~y, prom1se:i to re11ay, free of expense, to the above-mentioned i1ersons, or to the ii1turo holders of i;heir liouds; the aforesrtiil
6:
of tbree millions of florms of Brabant exchange money, hi this town of Antwerp, at the office of O. J. :M. De ·wolf within fifteon yoara
a ter the first of ?ecember, seventeen hundred and ninety-one, accordiug to the conditions and terms stipula·ted berei;iaftOl'
~he aforcsmd sum of three millions of florins cannot be reclaimed during eleven years after the first of December sev~ntoen humlrotl
an d urnetr-one
·• lmt at the expiration of th a t per10
· d th e sumof ·
'
·
six: h Ull(lr·ed th onsancl florins, Bri1ba11t oxcho,nge money,
shall Lo ropnh1 1

~Hamilton's Works, vol. iv, :P· 168.

t American State Papers, "Finance,'' vol. ii, p. w:i.

HISTORY OF THE NArrIONAL LOANS.

319

and a similar sum at the same date of every successive year, in such a manner that the whole debt of three millions of florins ab11Jl be
entirely discharged at the expiration of the fifteenth year.
The United States of America h11ve, however, the right to repay sooner the whole sum or a part of it, but always in bonds of one
thousand florins exchange money. In the mean time an annu11l interest of four and a half per cent. shall be paid for the aforesaid capital
from the first of December, seventeen lumdrecl ancl ninety-one, until the entire repayment of it, against "coupons" signed by Mr. Gouy,
clerk in the ofllco of C. J.M. De Wolf, or by those holders of bonds who may have preferred to have tliem made out in their own name.
The series of six hundred successive numbers, which after the expiration of eleven years are to bo repaid ~'early, shall each time be
decidecl by drawings by lot in in·csence of the undersigned notary and witnesses, at the office of C. J.M. De Wolf, of this town, where the
reimbursements shall bo effected, together with tho interest, at a da·te to be announced in the public newspapers.
The appearer, in his aforesaicl capacity, declares that C. J.M. De Wolf, banker, of this town, is the director of the present negotiation,
and promises in the name of his constituents that the amount of the annual interest, as well as the partial repa.yments, shall be yearly
remitted to him without any expensQ to the money lenders. Ho fur~her declares, in t,he name of his constituents, that neither the present
loan of three millions of florins, Brabant exchange money, nor any part of it, shall ever be subject to any fax or duty already imposed or
wltich may be imposed at any fnture period by the United St(l,tes, or some of them, not even if a war or contest should break.out between
t.ho United States, or some of them, on the one sille, aml the sovereign of these Belgian provinces on tho otlrnr sido, so that the repayment
ti either of tlw present capital nor of the interest can ever be interrupted or delayed under any pretext whatever.
The aforesaid appearer, in his above-mentionecl capacity, and in the name of the United States of America, promises and binds himself
that neither by them, nor in their name, nor by any of them, any covenant or treaty-private or public-shall be made which might be
prejudicial to the valiclity or fulfillment of the present eontract, or which might contain a clause at variance with its contents; so that the
present contract will have its full effect without any exception, whatever may occur.
Moreover, for the sake of increasing tho security, the appearer, in his above-mentioned capacity, promises ancl binds himself that the
present contract shall he ratified as soon as possible by his excellency the President of the United States of America, aml that an authentic
copy of this ratificatiou, as well as t.he translation of tho original, shall be deposited at tho office of the aforesaid director of the present
negotiation, to remain there, togo-ther with the authentic eopies of the translations, commissions, and warrants of the appearer, until the
repayment of the ca1)ital ancl iuterest.
Tho appearer, in his above-mentioned capacity, consents that a number of three thousand copies of this contract shall be printed,
eaeh o:f which containing at foot a receipt of one thousaml florins, Brabant exohange money, with a name or in blank, at the option of
the money lenders, signell by the appearer, numberecl from one to three thousand, and countersigned by C. J. llI. De Wolf, for the sake of
certifying tlrnt the number of parlfal contracts issued by virtue of this consent does not exceccl that of three thous(l,ud. These partial
·contracts, with their reeei1Jts ·thereto attached, must be returned by the holders against repayment.
For the fulfillment of the premises the appearer, in his above-mentioned capacity, pledges tho goocl faith of the United States of
America; warrants everything containecl in the aiJts of the Congress of the fourth and twelfth of August, seventeen lmndrecl and ninety,
ancl expressly renounces ever to take aclvantage of the law "Duobus vel plui·ibus reis debendi", as well as of the law" 01·dinis Diviaionis,
Excmssionis ", of which the effects are known to him, and of which he promises never to avail himself.
The l)resent contract was signed after a l!,rench tmnslation had been made of it, to serve us a duplicate, which the appearer has
likewise signecl ancl depositocl with me, the notary at Antwerp, in the presence of John A. Lanckpaep and John van Ouwenhuyzen as
witnBsseu.
W. SHORT.
JEAN A. LANCKPAEP.
J. YAN OUWENHUYZEN.
JOANS. G. DEELEN,
Notcwy.

I, the unc1ersigned, certify that tho above is a true and genuine copy clelivered by Alphonse Balthasar Pa~IWels, notary at Antwerp,
&ncl cnstoclian of the deeds of tlle above-named Doolen, notary - .
Antwerp, (7th) seventh November, eighteen hundred and seventy-four.
ALPHONSE PAUWELS.
Seen for legalization of the aliove signature of Mr. Pauwels ,in his above statecl capacity.
Antwerp, ninth November, eighteen hundrecl ancl seventy-four.
For the president of the civil court of justice :

ALFRED BERRE.

Seen for the legalization of th~ signatnre of Alfred Borre, given this tenth clay of November, eighteen hundred aucl seventy-four.
·
ERNST E'UCHS,
United States 17icc-Consnl.
I, the nnde1·signocl, certify that the above is a true aml faithful tmnslabion.
Antwerp, 17th November, 1874.
[SEAL.)

C. F. JAEGER,
Sworn Tra11slalm'.

Vu lll11' llOUS, rnesiclent du tribunal de 1r• iirntance, scant i1 Anvers, pour legalisation de la signature de lvf. Jaeger, qualifie ei-dcssus.
Anvers, 19 November, 1874.
TH. SMEKIKS.
[SEAL.]

Seou fo1· the lega.lization of the signature of Mr. Th. Smekins.
Given under my hancl and t11e seal of this consulate the day and year above written.
fBlllAL,]

ERNST FUCHS,
U. S. rice-ConBul.

320

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.
HOLL.A.ND LOAN OF DECEMBER, 1791.

The information respecting this loan is very scanty. It was negotiated in Holland under the authorizing acts of
August 4 and 12, 1790, by Mr. Short. .Finding that money could be obtained cheaper in Rolland, he withdrew 11
portion of the Antwerp loan from market and openecl a loan of 3,000,000 guilders ($1,200,000) in .Amsterdam. l1t 1
obtained the money at a lower rate of interest but a higher eommission. It appears to have been negotiatecl to run
. for twelve years, at 4 per cent. interest, then to he redeemable in five equal annual payments of 600,000. gnildon:l
each. The charges for commission, brokerage, &c. 1 were 51 per cent. W. & J. ·wminks, N. & J. van Staphon1t,
ancl Hubbard were the bankers emplo;yed in the transaction. The redemption commenced in 1803 and was complet1!1l
in 1~07.
HOLLAND LOAN OF 1792.
The instructions to borrow this money are contained in the following letter from the Secretary of the Treasur~·,
.Alexander Hamilton, to l\fr. Short:*
TREASUUY DgPARTMENT, llfa1'ch 21, 17\)2,
Sm: As the disclrnrge of tho arrears of interest and installments of the principal of the French dehr., which are due, may have oconMio111•l l
your power to borrow for that object to he suspenc1ed until yon cnu obtain a loan at a pte of interest m1cl ch:irges sufficiently recluootl, JI.
is my wish that as soon as it shall be proper, after the receipt of t11is letter, yon would proceec1 to borrow the sum of three millions of ilori111<,
on the terms of the Antwerp loan, to he appliet1 to the purposes mentioned iu the act of the 12th of August, 1790, for the reduction oi' j,Jll'
public debt.
I shall wish for tho earliest advices upon this su!Jject to enn.blo me to direct the c1rafts, and I requesP :your liarticnlar attention so ln
manage the operation that no loss of interest which eau be avoided may take 11lace.

The purposes mentioned in the act of tlle 12th of August, 1790, were the purcllasc of the debt of the U11ilt•< l
States (the domestic debt) at its market l)rice, not exceeding par.
Mr. Short appears to have found nb difficulty in obtainiug the money on favorable terms.
A copy of the contract is not now to be found, but it was drawn for .three millions of guilders ($1,200,000), nl ·l
per cent. interest, to run for eleven years, then to be redeemable in fixe equal anunal pa,yments of 600,000 gni11lt•1·:t
each. The commission and e;harges amounted to 5 per cent, witll au additional charge of 1 per ce~1t. on the intmt·~t
received and paid. For some reason, which does not appear, the subscriptions to this loan were closed at2,9@,oou
guilders. Its redemption began in 1803 and was completed in 1807.
HOLLAND LOAN OF 1793.
This money appears to have b<'en the first iustalhnent clue on the loan of five million guilders obtainetl ti~·
the Continental Congress in Holland i11 the year 1782. Mr. Hamilton proposed, in order to meet this and o01c-r
payments, to obtain a new loan of five million guilders, hut as it was found impossible to effect the armngemeni.H i 11
time, the bankers of the United States either furnished the moue~· themselyes, or obtained from the holders of thP
stock a reloan or continuation of the amount for ten years at the same rate of interest. The following letter ft'<Hn
Mr. Hamilton appears to haYe been the authority under which the affair \Yas transacted by the bankers, though i L
was written princi1mlly in reference to a s11bsequent transaction: t
Hamilton to Mcssi•s. W. g' J. Willinlc, N. <J· G. ran Staphorst, ani! H11bbm·d, Ba11l,01·s, Amsterdam..
TREASUltY DEPARTMENT, I'IIILADELPHIA, J,faroh 15,, 179:3.
GENTLEMEN: I receivecl, two days since, the le1ter which you c1icl me the honor to write me of the 14th of January last, inclosing f,hn

copy of one of the same elate to Mr. Short.
I regret tho state of things as there exhibited; ancl my regret will be increased, if circumstances shall have renclered it necess111•y tu
allow the high rate of 5 per cent. for tho contemplated loan. I hope, nevertheless, a bettor issuo from your zeal ancl intelligent cxorLio1111 ;
and, in time to come, every effort must he made here to avoid a liko necessity. If the thing were still in my power, I shoulcl deollno th n
loun nltogethcr.
Lest a disappointment should attenc1 the obtaining of a loan, I ho;1'e taken measures to arrest, in your ham1s, 495,000 guilderH of 011'
Mm whlch I last advised you woulc1 be drawn for. 'l'he sal.9 having been made to the Bank of the Unitecl States, has left this expe1U1111t.
ill my power. I shall, in addition to tliis, cause to· be remittell to you, between this time and the thircl of ne:x:t month-when the Dri1it1h
packet sails-the further sum of 975,000 guilders, in bills upon London am1 Amsterdam, unless I should, in i;he meantime, hem: of 11 lciun
having bcc.m undertaken. I cannot doubt that it will .be, at all events, in yonr llOWer to make temporary arrangements to foco t.ltu
exigency, should any c1clays ensue which may prevent these means being in measure for the demand.
·

The means at 'their command were not sufficient and tbe reloan was made as the only pmct~cable arrango11H111 t.
The commission lU1cl
charges amounted to
per cent. It was reimbursed in the year 1803.

It was to run for ten years, at 5 per cent. interest, then to be redeemable in one payment.

3z

"Hamilton's Works, vol. iv, p. 103.

tlbid., p. 346.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

321

HOLL.A.ND LOAN OF 1794.

It appears to have been determined, in tbe year 1793, to borrow an additional sum of five million guilders under
the acts of ~ugust ·:b aml 12, 1790, the power to borrow conferred on the President by those acts not having been
fully used, and money being needed to pay installments and interest on the foreign debt and to make purchases of
the domestic debt under the acts constituting a sinking fund. At the same time it was probable that the United
States might need large sums for military purposes, or at least·to make preparations for war. There waR a prospect
at home of general hostilities with the Indians, on whose territory the white population was beginning to encroach,
while abroad the French Revolutiou ho,d set Europe in a blaze. France had already declared war against England,
Rus·sia, and Hollancl. It was possible that this war wonlcl involve, as it did, every nation in Europe, while it was
doubtful if the United States would be able to preserve its neutrality. Hamilton submitted the question of a loan to
the President, who, before deciding, required a statement of the operations of the treasury under the authorizing
acts of 1700. Hamilton transmitted the statement June 24, 1793,* from which it appeared that there had been
borrowed, under these acts, $7,546,666 64, leaving, still unused, authority to borrow the sum of $6,453,333 36.
One of the purposes for which the money was wanted was the payment of a million guilders, due as an installment
on the• first loan contracted by the Oontinental Congress in Holland, but advices were soon recei>ed that this
installment had been reloaned to the United States for another ten yea.rs. This reduced the amount required to
four millions, which was subsequently cut down by Washington to three millions, as the rates of interest and
charges asked for money in Holland had increased, while too prospect of war hacl become less. Hamilton's
instructions to the ban.kers of the United States in Amsterdam are found in the following letter:t
Hamilton to W. go J. WillinTc, N. <]· J, Van Staph01·st, ai1d Hubbard, Ban7cers, A.mstm·dam.
'rREASURY DEPARTMENT, August 12, 1793.
GENTLEMEN: I have lately the i)leasure of your letters of the 22d of .A.pril and 1st of May.

The last was partienlarly acceptable, as
it removed all anxiety about the June payment in a mocle quite satisfactory to me.
The low prices at which our stocks have been for some time past, owing to the state of affairs in Europe (which has tended to lower
them in two ways, by lessening the foreign demand and by opening new channels for the more beneficial employment of our domestic
capital), indicate the expediency of extending the purchases of' stock on account of the government, which at present yields a very
decided advantage.
Upon this ground it is judged arlvisable to endeavor to obtain a loan in Holland for three millions of :florins, though better terms
should not be obtllinablo than 5 per cent. interest and 4 i)er cent. charges.
Not expecting that Mr. Short will be in Jlolland when this letter reaches you, and having full confidence in your pure zeal for the
interests of the United States, I have concluded to adclress an instruction for the above purpose immediately to you.
In the event, therefore, of Mr. Short's not being in Holland when this letter is received, you will take measures, of yourselves, to
obtain a loan for the abovo sum, within the limit above specified.
I count, nevertheless, upon your zealous exertions, if the state of the market should possibly aclmit of it, to obtain the loan at a lower
rate of interest. 'l'he success of your encleavors for that purpose will be particularly gratifying to me, and will be, in more than one way,
useful to our affairs. It is im110rtant, too, that I should receive the earliest advice of what you shall do.
The inclosed letter for Mr. Short ndvises him of the present aITangement, and desires him to co-opera.to iu whatever may be necessary
to give the business due form.
With great and real consideration and esteem, I am, &c.

Under these instructions the Messrs. Willink, Van Staphorst, and Hubbard opened the loan about December 1,
The general ·war in Europe had ra.ised the price of money,
though it had a favorable effect on the credit of the United States as a neutral power in the great contest.
The formal contract for the money cannot now be found. It seems to have borne the date of April IO, 1794,
and was for a loan of 3,ooo,ooo guilders ($1,200,000), to run for eleven years at 5 per cent. interest, then to be
redeemable in :fiv'3 equal annual payments of 600,000 ·guilders each. The charges for commission and brokerage
were 4 per cent. Its redemption commenced in the year 1805 and was completed in 1809. This closes. the
account of the Hollancl loans. They amounted to 32,5007000 guilders ($13,000,000), of which 9,ooo,ooo guilders
were borrowed under the authority of the Continental Congress and 23,500,000 guilders ($9,400,000) by the present
government of the United States, which began and completed the redemption oftbe whole.
.
A part of tbe redemption of these loans was effected in rather a singular way. Instead of buying bills of
exchange and remitting ·them the Secretary of the Treasury purchased cargoes of coffee and sugar, deliverable in
Rolland, paying the owners. i~ this country. These cargoes were consigned to the bankers of the United States ~n
.Amsterdam, sold by them, and the net proceeds applied in the redemption of the debt. These shipments began m
the year 1795 and continued until 1803 or 1804.
Of the $9 400 000 borrowed by the present government' over $3,000,000 was paid into the treasury of the United
States t1iml us~d i~ buying up the domestic debt, under the operations of the sinking fund; the balance was used
.in paying the debt due Spain, debts due to foreign officers who had served in the armies of the Revolution, and a
lai·ge portion in iiaying off a part of the de?t clue France. In connection with these paynients to France, an
1793, and obtained the money by August 31, 1794.

"Hamilton's Works, vol. iv. -p. 4GG.

21 W D 'l.'

tlbid.' p. 466.

322

VALUATION, rrAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

• t.erest'mg queet'Jon arose. The French "assignats"
enormously, yet
they
m
.
' as they were called, had de1)l'eciated
,
.
.
"l
tender
in
France
and
were
receivable
at
the
French
treasury
at
par.
It
was
suggested
that
it
might
le
were
a g... to wipe out the entire
'
·
· mark et pnce
· an d p~ying
·
th em
be possible
French debt by purc~asing the ass1gn~ts
at th e1r

out in France at their nominal and. legal value. The idea was a temptmg one.. The money .borrowed m Holland
had been raised with difficulty, lJart of it by heavy sacrifices, ~nd to pay the mterest and installments on these
loans as they fell due was a heavy burden on a treasury sustained by loans ancl .by the scan~y revenues drawn
from an impoverished country. To pay France in .her own curren~y would h~v.e relieved t.he Umted States a~ once
from the pressure of a large amount of foreign mdebtedness. ~he propos1t10n was rejected by the President,
however probably from the self-evident fact that, though legal, it was not honorable to take advantage of the
miserabl~ state of financial affairs in France. The President directed the secretary to make the payment "in a
mode which will exempt the parties receiving from the loss attendant on the depreciation of the assigna.ts, and, at
the same time occasion no loss to the United States". This was done, "giving to each creditor his option either to
receive bills 0~ Amsterdam, dollar for dollar, according to the intrinsic par of the metals at P~ris and Amsterdam,
or to receive an equivalent in assignats, according to the current rate of exchange betwe.en Paris and Holland at the
time". The only profit received by the United States in the transaction was the gam on the rates of exchange
between Paris ancl Amsterdam on payments in gold ancl silver.
DEBT DUE FOREIGN OFFIOERS.
Tlierc were many foreign officers wlio fought in the armies of the H.evolution. Of these, some were sent to
this country by Ilf. de Beaumarchais in the same vessels that brought cargoes of military supplies; but this
statement does not apply to La Fayette, Steuben, Kosciusko, and others of high rank or of great military
experience in the wars of Europe. These, and a large number whose achievements are forgotten, and of whose
record nothing remains save what is found in the journals of the Continental Congress arnl the archives of the
Treasury Department, through which they received pay for their services, reached the American armies by their
own independent means. Several of these officers, however, hacl overestimated the reward they expected to receive,
while others followed with equally high expectations, ancl in many cases with snch extravagant l)romises made
theru as to cause serious trouble to Congress.
Native officers who had risen to high rank in the Revolutionary army were not inclined to be quietly
superseded by foreigners. Among those who were sent over by Beaumarchais was M. dn Oonclray, who emne
under a contract, by which he was to receive the rank of major general, with the command of the artillery. Bnt
General Knox was in command of the artillery, ancl was one of Washington's most trnstecl officers. To tnJrn the
command from him and give it to a foreigner ignorant of the langna.ge of the troops he was to command, wonld
have caused the immediate resignation of Knox, and would have demoralizecl the service; while to decline to
acknowledge a contract made by an American commissioner in Paris, would hn.ve causecl gren.t embitrrassmeut,
especially when the contracting party had come three thousand miles to claim its fulfillment. The question was
iwstponed in Congress, Dt1 Condray consenting to serve as a volunteer with a nominal rank until n, decision was
made. Before it was formally settled he was accidentally clrownecl while crossing the Schuylkill river. Mn.ny of
those who came over from Europe po seek commissions in the American army were men of high character, and
their services have added luster to our military history,
The Continental Congress was unable, when the war closed, to pay the army in full, mnch difficulty being found
in obtaining even enough money to send the soldiers to their places of enlistment. Tho foreign officers, so far as
pay was concerned, probably fared rather better than the American soldiers, a strong effort being made to pay tllem
as large a portion of the amount due them as possible; but to pay them in full, could not be done. An adjustment
of their accounts was made in 1782, and a part of their demands was paid in cash. For the balance, certificates of
indebtedness were given, bearing an interest of 6 per cent. These certificates, like all paper of the Continental
Congress, depreciated rapidly in value, and in January, 1784, under a resolution of Congress, they were called in
and new certijicates were issued, dated" y0 5th April, 1784", bearing interest at 6 per cent. from January 1, payable
annually at the house of M. Grand, banker, in Paris. No time for the' redemption of these certificates was named .
.The total amount of certificates or bonds issued was $186,988 78. Their redemption began in 1792 under instructions
from the Secretary of the Treasury, who directed that a part of the Holland loan of 2 950 000 guilders should be used
for that purpose, paying the holders of the bonds in gold or its equivalent, and not id the' clepreciatecl paper currency
of France. In 1803 the larger portion had been reimbursed, but a small amount remained outstanding, not lrnving
been presented for payment. It was not until the year 1828 that all were redeemed •
. The origin~l bonds, w~ich are all well preserved, were printed on parchment, and were the only bonds of the
Umted States issued on this material.
TEMPORARY LOAN OF 1789.
On .assuming the position of Secretsry of the Treasury, Hamilton found himself entirely without funcls to meet
~he ordinary expenses of the government, except by borrowing, until such time as the revenues from duties on
unports and tonnage began to come into the treasury. Under these circumstances he was forced to mnlrn

HIS1.10RY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

323

arrangements with the Bank of New York and the Bank of North America for temporary loans, and it was the
money received from these banks that paid the first installment of salal'y due President Washington, senators,
representatives, and officers of Congress, during the first session nuder the Constitution, which began at the city
of New York, March 4, 1789.
The following copy of a cil'cular .~o the collector of customs at Baltimore, Maryland, refers to neg01fat;ions which
bad been recently made with the banks named:*
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, September 22, 1789.
Sm: In consequence of arrangements lately tu.ken with tho Bank of North America and the Bank of New York, for tho accommodation
of tl10 government, I am to inform you that it is my desire that the notes of those b11nks, pay11blo either on demand or at·no longer period
than thirty d11ys after their respective dates, should be received in payment of the duties as equivalent to golu and silver, and that they
will be received from you as snch by tho treasurer of the United States. This measure, beside the imruediafo accommodation to which
it has reference, will facilitate remittances from the several States, without clrawing away their Rpecic-an aclv:.i,ntage in every view
· important. I shall cause you shortly to be fnrnisho(l with such indications of the genuine notes, ns will serve to guard you ttg11inst
counterfeits, and shall direct the manner of remitting them. In tho meantime, and until further orders, yon will please to receive them,
transmitting to me a weekly account of your receipts 1111d payments. Tho treasurer of the United States will probably have occasion to
draw upon you for part of the compensation for memhers of Congress from your state. These drafts you will also receive, in payment of
the dnt.i.es, or in exchange for any specie arising from them which <1h111l have come to your hands.
I am, sir, your obec1ient servant,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Se<Yl'etary of tlie TN·isui·y.
OTIIO H. WILLIAMS, Esq.,
Colleotoi• of the Cnstoms .for Baltimore, Ma1'yland.

The following is an extract from the report of the Secretary of the Treasury to the Honse of RepresenhttiYc~.
dated March 1, 17!JO, transmitting adclitional estimates of appropriations required: t
As to the interest on loans for tho current service: those which hu,ye been alreu(ly made, were the result of necessity ; th!ly lrnvo 11cm1 in
great part satisfietl, autl the resicluo will shortly be roimlrnrsecl out of the product of the duties; hut t.ho interest, being an extra expenditure,
requires an amiropriation; ancl, ns a fnrther anticipation of the receipts into t.he treasury, to s11tii:1fy imme(liato <lemands npon it, will be
mmvoidable, it is necessary that this also shonld be provicletl for. Obvious cou8idcrations c1ict11te the propriety, in future cn.ses, of making
previous provision, by law, for such loans as the public exigencies may call for, defining their extent, and giving special authority to m:11re
them.

The estimate is as follows : :j:
For the 1myment of interest which has alroacly arisen on the two loans macle by the Secretary of the Tre11snry, viz:
On $90,000 liorrowecl oft.he Bank of North America ...................................................... $2, 085 OG
On $80,000 borrowccl of tho Bank of New York........... .. . .. . . ... ... ... .. . . .. .. . . . . .. • •. . . . . . .. .. .. . .. . 1, 93•1 82
4, 010 68
Dcclnct for interest arising on moneys paicl into thoso bauks, of the collectors of the duties on imports and
tonnage, for tho ports of'Philmlolphin., ancl New York, in part payment of tho said loans . ..••• ..•••• .... 1, G05 27
2, 414 61

Interest; upon further loans whioh will be necessary for expenditures during the present ye11J.·, before tho
receipts into the treasury, from the established revenues can become adequate to the clemancls upon it...

2, 585. 39
5, 000 00

The loans referred to were contracted for as follows:
September 13, 1789, $20,000.-A loan agreed to be made by the Bank of New York to the Secretary of Wnr,
in pursuance of an appropriation made by an act of Congress of the 20th of August, l 789 (1 Statutes, 54).
This act provides: "That a sum not exceeding $20,000 arising from the duties on imports and tonnage, shall be,
and the same is hereby, appropriated to defraying the expenses of negotiating and treating with the Indian tribes."
September 14, 178!l, $30,000.-.A. loan agreed to be made by the Bank of New York to the United States,
conformably to certain articles of agreement of the same date.
September 21, 1780, $50,000.-A loan agreed to be made by the Bank of North America to the United States,
conformably to certain articles "of .agreement of September 17.
October 1, 1789, $20,000.-A loan .agreed to be made hy the Bank of New York to the United St11tcs,
conformably to certain articles of agreement of October 1.
October 10, 1789, $20,000.-A loan agreed to be macle by the Bank of North America to the United States
conformably to certain articles of agreement of October 10.
December 1, 1789, $10,000.-.A. loan this day agreed to be made by the Bank of New York to the United States.
December 2, 1789, $20,000.-.A. loan agreed to be made by the Bank of North America, conformably to articles
of agreement of ~ovember 30, and $8 81 for a.n overcharge in their interest account.§
December 2, 1789, $1,600.-For a warrant ('.No. 6) clra.wn by the Secretary of the Treasnry on Joseph Howell,
jr., paymaster general, in favor of the treasurer, being for the present service of the public.
"Hn.milton's Works, vol. iii, p. u37.
t American State Papers, "Finance," vol. i, JI· :JS.

Pbid., p. 42.
§Receipts an(l expenditures, 1780-'91, p. 45.

324

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

February 17, 1790, $20,000.-Being in part of a loan of $50,000, agreed to be made by the Bank of New York
to the United States, conformably to certain articles of agreement of the s~me date.

These loans were all repaid according to contract, the final payment bemg made June 8, 1790.
TEMPORARY LOAN OF 1790.
The seventh section of the act of March 26, 1790 (1 Statutes, 105), authorized the President to empower the
Secretary of the Treasury to make such loans as might be requisite to carry i.nto effect certain speci~c a1~proprirLtious
made by the act. In this connection the following, copied from manuscript papers uow deposited 111 the Srn.to
Department, will sufficiently explain the circumstances which necessitated the making of this loan :
The Secretary of the Treasury begs leave respectfully to inform the President of the Unite(l St::i.tes of Amerio11:
That in order to be able to furnish, in the course of the ensuing month, for the cornpensa·tion of the members of CougresEi 1111<1 ilrn
officers a~d servants of the two houses, a sum of about $60,000; for the payment of the salaries of the oivil list to the cud of the present
month a sum of about $40,000; for the use of the Department of War, a sum of about $:lO,OOO; :111(1 for procuring bills to pay au ar:rom· of
intere~t on the Dutch loans to the first of June next, a sum of about $35,000 (amounting together to about $185,000)-it will be reqnisito to
olitain a lo:.m of $100,000.
There being in the treasury now a sum not exceeding $50,000, including $30,000 which the Bank of New York stancls engaged to
advance on demand, to complete a loau of $50,000, stipulated for on the 17th clay of February last, whieh is considore<l as oqnivalont to :i
snm in the treasury; and inasmuch as tho payment of former loaus and other current demands will probably ci~ll for a consiclorablo
part of tlie moneys which may be expected in the interim from the product of the revenues: vVhercfore, the' sai<l Secrct;ary submits to tho
President of the United States the propriety of authorizing a loan to be made to the extent of the said sum of $100,000,
' A. HAMILTON,
Seorotai·y of tho Treas1wy.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, March 29, 1790.
The Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to negotiate and agree for a loan to the Uuitccl States, to an amount not oxooedh1g
$100,000, bearing au interest mit exceeding 6 per cent. per annum, to be applietl toward earryiug into effect the appropriations mnc1o by

the act entitled "An act making appropriations for the support of government for the year 1790", and acco1:ding to the u.nucxed
representation.
G. WASHINGTON.
UNITED STATES, March 31, 1790.

SIX PER OENT., THREE PER CENT., AND DEFERRED SIX PER OENT. STOOKS OF 1700.
The mass of debt which devolved upon the United States, as an inheritance from the Oontiueutal Oong·ress
and the several colonies, engaged the attention of the national legislature soon aftCl' the adoption of the Oonstitntion. The debt was very large and depreciated, and was still depreciating in value; but it was the JH'ice of liberty,
and the payment of that portion of it contracted by national authority was macle obligatory by the new Constitution. It was necessary, therefore, to provide for it in some way, although the payment of even the interest seeme<l
impossible in the exhausted condition of the country at that time.
In reply to' a confidential letter from P.resident Washington, d11ted Mount Vernon, July 29, 1792, Hamilton
says:•
The general inducements to a provision for the public debt were:
1. To preserve the public faith and integrity by fulfilling, as far as was practicable, the public cnga"'eruonta.
2. To manifest a due respect for property, by satisfying the public obligations in the hands of the ;ublic credito1·a 1 and whioh wero
-is much their property as their houses or their lands, their hats or their coats.
3. To revive and establish public credit, the palladium of public safety.
4. To preserve the government itself by showing it worthy of the confidence which was plaoad in it; to procure to the community
the blessings which in innumerable ways attend confidence in the government, and to avoid the evils which ill as many ways attend the
want of confidence in it.

On September 21, 1789, the House of Representatives adopted the following resolutions:
Resoh•eii, That this Honse consider an adequate provision for the support of the public crodit as a matter of high importance to the
national honor and prosperity.
•
.Retolved'. That ·the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to prepare a plan for that purpose, antl to re1)orb J;ho samo to tbis Honse at
its next meetmg.
,

There were many difficulties in the way of adopting a plan which would be s~~tisfactory · in fact to do evenhanded justice was probably impossible. One great difficulty was in the many different ld~cls of aebt which it
was t;hought ~ould b.e paid ~y the United States. These various kinds of debt bad depreciated in different ways;
and on ma~y JUSt claims, which had been purchased of the original owners for a triile, a large amount of iuterest
was due, m ·some cases amounting to more than the purchase-money for the claims themselves. This del>t
was due on account of foreign loans obtained in France and Holh1nd; the obligations of the Continental Congress
~Hamilton's Works, vol. iv, pp. 254, 255.

325

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

given for loans, or in payment of supplies at home; loan-office certificates; continental bills of credit; continental
currency; the paper currency of the different States; the floating debt of the government not credited, and of
unknown amount; and the debts of the different States.
The following statement shows the indebtedness of the United States at the organization of the present form
of government, including arrearagcs of interest to January 1, 1790:
French loan of eighteen million livres ...............•..........•........................••.......
:French loan of ten million li vres .................................•..............................•.
French loan of six million livres ...................................••.........•...•••......•.....
Loan from farmers-general of France, balance clue ..............•.................•........•......
Loan from Spain in 1781 .................•.........•.......•.......................•••....•....••
Holland loan of 1782 ..............•....•.•....•............•.......... ~.. . . . • • . • . . • . . . . • . . • . • •••
Holland loan of 1784 ...•.....................•.•.................•.......•....••••.•••.•..•.•.•••
Holland loan of 1787 ....••...••....•....•••.............•.•.....•...•.....•.••.••••••..••.••..•..
Hollancl loan of 1788 ...••............•...•....•••............•................•• ~ .••.....•.....•

$3, 267, 000 00

Total principal of foreign clebts ....•..•.•.................•....•...••....•••••.•.....•...•..
Balance due France for military supplies ..•••...•.•..•••••...............•........••.•...••••....
Arreara.ges of interest to Jannn,ry I, 1790 ...•.••....•......•.........•..........••.•.•...........•
Debt clue foreign officers who had served in the war of the Revolution .....•.........•.......•..••.
Arrearages of interest to January 1, 1790 ................•.....................•..•..•............
Principal of the domestic debt, estimate cl. ..•••••.........................••••.......•.....••.....
Arrearages of interest to January 1, 1790, estimated...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .• . • . . . . • • . .• • •• , ...••.....

10,098,706 02
24, 332 86
1,760,277 08
186, 988 78
11, 219 32
28,858, 180 65
11, 398, 621 80

Add to this arrears and olaims against the late government ontstancliug ancl subsequently disohargecl.

52,338,326 51
450,395 52

Making the total debt of the United States January 1, 1790 . . .••. ..•. ..... •. ... . . . .. . . . . . ...• .....

52, 788, 722 03

1,815,000 00
1, 089, 000 00
153,688 89
174,017 13
2,000,000 00
800, 000 00
400, 000 00
400, 000 00

To this should be added the individual debts of the several states, the precise amount and character of wWcll
was then unknown, estimn.ted by Hamilton ttt that time to aggregate about $25,0001000.
There were two kinds of debt i.n the adjustment of which there seems to have been no difficulty: One was
the undisputed foreign debt, where the lenders had paid for their bonds in gold, on the faith of the Continenta,l
Congress; the other was the paper money issued by Congress ancl the several states.
Authorities vary much as to the amount of paper money issuecl during the struggle for independence. Possibly
l\ir. J e:fferson's statement in his writings may be taken as approximate to the truth, and it affords, at the same time,
a striking exhibit of the effects of the inflation of our paper cm;rency: *
On the commencement of the late Revolution Congress had no money. The external commerce of tho states being suppressed, the
farmer coulcl not sell bis produce, and, of course, coulcl not pay a tax. Congress· had no resource then but in paper money. Not. being
11blo to ln.y a tax for its reclemption1 they could only promise that taxes should be laicl for that purpose, so as to redeem tho bills by a
certain. day. They clid 11ot foresee the long continuance of the war, the almost total suppression of their exports, and other events
which rendered the performance of their engagements impossible. The pa11er money continued for a twelvemonth equal to gold and
silver; but the quantities which they were obliged to emit, for the purpose of the war, exceeded what had been the usnaJ quantity of the
circulating medium.
·
It began, therefore, to become cheaper or, as we expressed it, it depreciated, as golcl and silver would ha.ve clone had they been
thrown into circulation in equal quantities. But not having, like them, an intrinsic value, its depreciation was more rapid ancl groatcn•
than conld ever h1we happened with them. In two years it had fallen to two dollars of paper money for one of silver; in three yenrs to
four for one; in nine months more it fell to ten for one; aud in the six months following, that is to say, by September, 17791 it hail fallen
to twenty for one.
Congress, alarmed at the consequences which were to be approhondecl should they lose this resource altogether, ·foonght it 11ecessary
to make a vigorous effort to stop its further depreciation, They therefore cletermiuec11 in the first place, that their emissions ahoultl not
exceed two hundred millions of dollars, to which sum they wore then nearly arrh•ed, and t.hough they knew that twenty dollars of what.
they were then issuing would buy no more for their army than cu1e.silver clollar would bny, yet they thought it woulcl be worth wllllo to
submit to the sacrifice of nineteen out of twenty dollars if they ooulcl thereby stop further dop1·oeiation. They therefore published an
aclclress to their constituents, in which they renewed their original declarations that this paper moneyshoulcl be recleemecl at dollar for
clollar. They proved the ability of ·tho states to do this, and that their liberty would be cheaply bought at this price. The cleolara.tion
was ineffectual. No man received the money at a bettor rate. On the contrary, in six months more, tha.t is, by llfo:rch, 1780, it bad fallen
to forty for one. Congr«i;iss tl1en tried au experiment of a different kind. Cousidel'ing their former offe1·s to recleem this money at l)ar as
relinquished, by the general refusal to take it but in progressive depreciation, they requirecl the whole to be brong·ht in, declarecl it should
be redeemecl at its present value of forty for one, and that they wou!cl'give to the holclors now bills, reducocl in their denomination to the
sum of gold or silver which was actually to be paid for them. This wonlcl reduce the nominal sum of the mass in circulation to tlrn
present worth of that mass, which was five millions, a sum not too great for the circulation of tho states, ancl which they therefore hopecl
would not depreciate further, as they continuecl Jlrm in their pnr1)ose of emitting no more. This effort was as unavailing as the former.
Very little of the money was brougl1t in.
·
H coutinuecl to circulate ancl to depreciate till the encl of 1780, when it had fallen to seventy-five for one; and the money circulated
from the French army being, by that time, sensible in all the states north of the Potomac, the paper oeasecl its circulation altogether hi
those states. In Virginia and North Carolina it co:µtinuecl a year longer, within which time it fell to one thousancl for oue, and then
expired, as it hacl done in the other states, without a single groan. Not a murmur was heard on this occasion among the people. On the
contrary, universal congratulations took place on their seeiug this gigantic mass, whose dissolution had threatened convulsions which
should shake ·their infl1ll°b Confederacy to its center, quietly interred in its grave.
•Jefferson's Works, vol. ix, p. 248.

326

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNERS.

Jefferson estimates the value of the two hundred millions of Oontinental currency at the time of its emission at
$36,367, 719 83 in specie, and says:*
If we estimo,to at the same value the like sum of $200,000,000 supposed to ho,ve been ei_nitted by the sto,tes'. ancl reckon the
fetleral debt, foreign and domestic, at about $43,000,000, and the state debts at $25,000,00D, it w1~l form an amount ?f $140,000~0.0~, t~e
total sum which the war cost the Unitecl States. It continued eight years from the battle of Lexmgton to the cessation of host1hties m
Americo,. The annual tJ:x:pense was therefore eqiml to about $17,500,000 in specie.

A portion of the· domestic debt had been audited by authority of the Continental Oong1:ess, and certificates
given therefor. This was called the "liquidated" debt; while the floating debt, not yet anchtecl, was called the
"nnliquidatecl."
.
The question of assuming the debts of the several states was one that gave rise to e~c1ted debate an(l much
angry ;f~eling. The states had contracted these debts, partly in defending themselves 11gams~ the common e?1e1ny,
partly in carrying on their governments or in undertakings with which the rest of the .contn~ent had notlnng to
do. Some of them were largely indebted to the general government, while others agam clauned la1'ge arnounts
dne them from the Confederation.
In relation to this subject, Ilamilton, in his letter to Washington, before referred to, says: t
The particular inducements to an assumption of the state debts were:
1. To consolidate the finances of the country, and give au assurance of pcnnanent order in them; avoicling the collision of thirteen

different and independent systems of finance under concurrent and coequal authorities, ancl tho scritmbliugs for revenue which wouhl
Jmve been incident to so many different systems.
.
2. To secure to the government of the Union, by avokling thoso entanglements, an effectual commaucl of the resources of tho Union
for present and future exigencies.
3. To equalize tlte conclition of the citizens of the several states in the important article of t,axatfon; rescuing 1~ irnrt of them from
lieiug oppressed with burdens beyond their strength, on account of extraordinary exertions in the war and througl1 the want of cort11iu
aclventitious resources which it was the goml fortune of others to possess.

On the 9th of January, 1790, Hamilton made his report to the House of Representatives, in obedience to
the resolution of September 21, 1789, before referred to, in which he gave many reasons for assuming the clebts
of the old government and of the several states, and furnished a plan for supporting the public credit. His
recommendations were finally (ldopted, and embodied in the act making provision for the payment of the debt
of the United States, approved August 4, 1790 (1 Statutes, 138).
Section 2 of this act authorized a loan of $12,000,000, to be applietl to the payrnent of the Jlrincipal and interesb
of the foreign debt: Provided, That no contract should be entered into which should preclude the Unitecl States
from reimbursing the loan within fifteen years.
Section 3 authorized a loan to the full amount of the domestic debt, payable in certificates issued for the said
debt, according to their specie vaJ.ue, and computing the iutcrest upon such as bore interest to December 31, 17!)1,
The character of these certificates is specified in the same section of the act.
Section 13 authorized a loan of $21,500,000, payable in the principal and interest of the certificates or notes
which prior to Januar;y 1, 1790, were issued by the respective states as evidences of indebtedness incurred by thenr
for the expenses of the late war.
Section 15 provides: ''That for two-thirds of any sum subscribed to the saicl loau, l>y any person or i>ersons, or
lio<ly politic, which shall be paid in the principal and interest of the certificates or notes hisned as nforesaicl by the
tespectiYe states, the subscriber or subscribers shall be entitled to a certificate, purporting tlu1t tlle United States
mn:s to the holder or holders thereof, or hjs, her, or their assigns, a sum to be expressed the1'ein, equal to two-thirds
of the aforesaid two-thirds, bearing an interest of six per centum per annum, payable quarter-yearly, and subject to
~·1·demption by payments, not exceeding in one year, on account both of principal and interest, the proportion of
eight dollars upon a hundred of the sum mentioned in such certificates; and to another certificate purporting that
the United States owe to the holder or holders thereof, his, her, or their assigns, 11 sum to be e~})ressed therein,
equal to the proportion of thirtJ'-three dollars and one.third of a dollar upon a hundred of the said two-thirds of
such sum so subscribed, which after the year 1800 shall bear an interest of six per centum per annum, i)ayablo
~muter-yearly, and ~nbject ~o redemption by 1myme11ts, not exceeding in one year, on account both of principal ancl
mterest, the proportion of eight dollars upon a hundred of the sum mentioned in such certificate· and that fo1· tho
remaining t?ird of any sum so subscribed, the subscriber or subscribers shall be entitled to a certificate, purporting
that the Umte~l States.o~es to :he hold~r or hol~ers thereof, his, her, or their assigns, a sum to be expressed therein,
equ~l to. the smd r~nrnnung thml, be.armg an mterest of three per cent. per annum, pa,.rnble quurteT-yearly, and
snbJech co redem11t10n by payment of the sum specified therein whenever provision shall be made bJ law for that
purpose.''
It will thus be seen that, "in the case of the debt of the Un:itecl States, interest n11ou two-thirds of the principal
only, at 6 per cent., was immediately paid;. interest upon the remaining third was deferred for ten years, anu onl.v
3 per cent. was allowed upon the arrears of mterest, making one-third of the whole debt. In the case of the separate
*Jefferson's ·works, vol. ix, p. 260.

t.Hamilton's Works, vol. iv1 p. 255.

327

HISTOHY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

debts of the states, interest upon four-ninths only of the entire sum was immediately paid; interest upon two-ninths
was deferred for ten years1 and only 3 per cent. allowed on three-ninths."*
The following statement, showing the amount authorized to be assumed in the redemption of the debt of each
state and the amount assumed, is taken from the official reports :

:~~m-p-s-hu-o-.-..-..-..-.-...-.-..-..-.-..-..-..-.-...-.-..-..-..-.-...-.-..-~-~-~~~-~-...-..-..-...-.---.-..-..-..-.-...-.-.~~-..· .· ....·..-...-.-.-.-.-..-..----.-..-..-IA-m~oun~t:-~: .: :=:=o-.~_=A~m-=o_un~t~:=2_:=2_~=m_~9=:=.-~l
Mas8achusetts ......................................................................................... -. . .. . . . .. .. . . .. . . . .
lllmclo lsfand ..........................................................·............................................ -. . . . . . .
Connecticut................................................................................................................
~owYork ..................................................... ···············-·······················-··········-·······NewJ"ersey................................................................................................................

Pennsylvania..............................................................................................................
D~fawnxe . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . • .. .. .. . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Maryland ....... --.......................................................................................... -.. -..... -. . . . .
VirginlaaudKcntucky ......... : ..................................... ,.....................................................

North Carolina......... • . • • . • • • • • . .. • . • . .. . . .. . . . . . . • • . . • . . . . • . . • • . . .. • . . • • . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • • •
South Carolina ........................................................................................ -•... -.. -. . . . . . . ... . .
Georgia. ... _•....••.......••.•••..•..•... -............. -.. . .. . • • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . .. • . . . . • . . • . . . . • •. .. .

········I

4, 000, 000 00
200, 000 00
1, 000 1 000 00
1,200,000 00
800,000 00
2, 200, 000 00
200, 000 00
800, 000 00
8,500,000 00
2, 400, 000 00
4, 000, 000 00
300, 000 00

3, 981, 733 O!>
200, 000 00
1, 000, 000 00
1,183,710 00
095,202 70
777, 083 48
59, 161 05
517, 491 08
2,934,410 00
l, 703, 803 85
a, 099, 001 73
240, 030 73

1~~~~~--t~·~·~~~-

•.rotn.1 ...................................................... - .............. •·•··•••·•·· ···••·· ···:······ ......

21, 500, 000 00

18, 271, 780 47

The act of August 12, 1790 (1 Statutes, 18G), provides, that for the purpose of reclucing the amount of the public
debt, the surplus revenue derived from the duties collected on goods, wares, and merchandise imported, ancl the
tonnage of ships or vessels to the last day of December, 1790, shall be applied to the purchase of the clebt of the
United States, at its market price, if not exceeding i)ar, or true value thereof.
The sakl purchases to be made under the direction of the president of the Senate, Chief Justice, Secretary of
State, Secretary of the Treasury: and Attorney General for tl,ie time being; who, or any three of whom, with the
approbation of the President of the United States, sha.11 cause said purchases to be made in such manner and under
such regnlaLions as shall appear to them best calculated to fulfill thl"l intent of the act, said purchases to be made
openly and with due regard to the equal benefit of the several states.
Their accounts were to be settled as other public accounts, and a report of their i)roceedings, as commissioners
of the sinking fund, to be laid before Congress each session.
It also authorized a loan not exceeding $2,000,000, at an interest not exceeding 5 per cent., to be applied to
the purchase of the said debt under similar regulations and restrictions with the surplus aforesaid, and provided
tluit, out of the interest arising on the debt to be purchased, there should be approp1fated and applied a sum not
exceeding the rate of 8 per cent. per annum, on account both of princi1lal aud interest, toward the repayment of the
amount so to be borrowed.
Prior to the ymi,r 1836, the amount of money requisite for the redem1)tion of these secui.'ities had all been
advanced to the different loan officers in the several states, or to the Bank of the United States and its branches
acting as loan agents, and the nation was practically free from debt. Subsequently small sums were re1mid into
the treasury, not having been called for by parties holding the various outstandi11g obligations. Since that time
it portion of these have presented their claims for payment to the treasury, ancl received the amount due them.
The system in vogue in early years for the redemption of the public debt of the United States is thus explained
by Secretary Gallatin, in a letter to the Hon. John Randolph, chairman of the committee of ways and means,
November 28, 1803:
There was a commissioner of loans in each of the original thirteen states on the 4th of August, 1790, the
date of the "Act makir1g provision for the debt of the United States", and the whole of the domestic clebt was
credited to the stockholders for the sums to which they were respectivel;r entitled, on books kept either by one of
these commissioners or the register of the treasury.
The debt was transferable only on the books of the treasury, or of the commissioner upon which th~ credit for
tbe same existed at the time of transfer by the stockholder or his attorney; and the interest was paid and the
l'eimbursement of the principal effected, wheresoever the credit fo1· the stock existed at the time when such interest
became due, or such reimbursement was made.
The interest and reimbursement which might remain unclaimed for nine months was aftel'wards l)ayablo only
at the treasury. The proprietors might at any time have their stock transferred from the books of one commissioner
to those of another, or to the books of the treasury, and from the books of the treasury to those of a commissioner.
During the last fourteen days of every quarter all the above-mentioned books were closed, and no transfer
whatever coulcl be effected, that period being employed in calculating the amount of interest and refo1bursement
payable on the first day of the succeeding qt:tarter to each stockholder, and in transcribing the same on what were
called the" dividend books" for that quarter. The sum payable on the treasury books was the~, together with the
~Hamilton's Works, vol. iv, p. 251.

328

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC ,INDEBTEDNESS.

dividend books relative to it deposited in and paid at the office of the Ba.nk of the United States, at Washington,
to the proprietors, that part excepted which was payable to stockholders (principally foreigners) who had given
permanent powers of attorney to the Ba.nk of the United States, and which was remitted to that institution a.t
Philadelphia.
.
Some of the commissioners of loans at times, though not always, completecl their calculations, and communicated
the result to the treasury early enough to enable the Secretary to remit them the precise amount wanted before
the first day of the quarter. To every commissioner whose account was not received, a sum estimated sufficient to
discharge the amount payable was remitted in time to meet the clay of payment.
The commissioners of :Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Georgia deposited the
money remitted to them, together with their dividend books, in the Bank of the United States and its offices,
respectively, where the dividends were paid.
The other commissioners, residing at places where there was no office of the Bank of the United States, kept the
specie and paid the dividends themselves. The amount of dividends on the books of the several commissionei s
which remained unclaimed for nine months was, from time to time, and as the same was ascertaine<l, paid by the
treasury to the office of the bank at the seat of government, and deducted from the estimate of advances to be
made to the respective commissioners. It will thus be seen that the duties of the commissioners of lmtns consisted
in entering on their books the transfers resulting either from sales or from transfers of stock from one office to
another; in issuing new certificatei:; in conformity with such transfers; in calculating and transcribing on proper
books, for every quarter, the dividends payable on the stock then standing on their hooks; and, in those places where
there was no office of the Bank of the United States, in paying the dividends.
The records show that on June 30, 1803, there was standing upon the books of the treasury and the several
commissioners of loa.ns, in stock of the United States, $70;154,7Sl 48, which amonnt was held and owned by
14,326 parties, including $32,119,211 88 held by foreigners and $38,035,569 00 held by states, banks, and other
corporations, and by citizens of the United States. The following is a statement of the old 6 per cent., 3 per cent.,
and deferred 6 per cent. stocks of the United States standing on the books of the treasury and those of the scYeral
commissioners ofloans on the 30th of June, 1803:
6 per cent. stock, S per cent. stock. Doforrctl stock,
nomlnlll nmount.
nominal amount.
Trerumry •....•..•.••••.•.•••••••...••••.•.•••.•...•.•••.......•.•...••..••.•••.•••.•••••••.•••••....•••.•••....

Son th Carolina .••••••••••••.•.••••••.••...••••••••••••••• , •••••••••••••••••.••••••••••.••••••...••.•.•.••••••••
Georgia •••.••••••.••..••...••.••.•••••••••••••..•....•.•••..••..•••.••••••••••..••.••••••••..•..••••••••••.••••

$11, 524, 021 23
215, 003 72
5, 145, 820 48
283, 586 44
774, 652 88
4, 862, 029 79
196, 158 61
a, 419, a41 a5
68, 958 78
846, 203 10
4.36, 863 60
86, 244 91
1, 202, 040 02
87, 105 57

Total ...•..•••..•...•........•••••.••..••..•....•..•........•••••.•....••...•..•.••••.•••. : .••.....•...•••

2a, 155; 585 &l

New Hampshire .•••.•••..•.•••...•..••..•••••••••••••••••••.••.••.•.•.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••
Mnss11-0hnsetta •.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..•.•••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••.•.•••.••••••••••.•••••

Rhotle Island...................... •••.•••.••••.•••.•••.•...•.•..••.••••.•••.••••.•.••.•....••.....•.....•••...
Connecticut ..•.•••••.•••.•••...• "' ••.•••.••••.••.••••••••••.••......••..•..•.....••.•••.....•..••.••••••••••••.
New York .•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••••..••.••••••••.••.•••.••••••••••••
New Jersey ............................................................................................. , ••••••

Pennsylvania·············;·--···································· ........................................ : ••.
Delaware ••..•••.•..•••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••.••••••••••••••••

Marylllnd
Virginia .. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::: ••••.•.••..•••••..••••.....••.•.••••.••...•.•......•........•..••.•••.

...............................................................................................................

North Carolina ................................................................................................ .

$7, 030, 332 03
102, 720 30
2, 431, 750 51
216, 105 85
486, 788 19
8, 2411, 484 80
116, 542 80
B, 4801 286 71
87, 552 08
01,821 72
2s2, 884 ao
41, 200 02
' 011, 027 01
10, 631 07

ljl4, 503, 008 77
115, 038 21
2, 005, 401 73
144, •i22 84
425, Oln 70
2, 405, 818 8:1

110, a2s •lo
a, 810, 2s.i oa
2a, 2s3 21
102, 0$2 37
100, 025 [15

23, 777 88
648, 506 23
12, 587 16

rn, 047, 800 82
I 10, 072, 005 15 ------

Th? following is a st~tement of the amount of 6 per cent., 3 per cent., and deferred 6 per cent. stocks,
respectrvely, owned by foreigners, states, banks, and other corporations, and by individuals residing in the Unitecl
. States, as shown by the treasury books June 30, 1803:
Dutch.

A.11 other for.
eign -credi·
to1a.

Total foreign.
era.

Inoo~orated

$7, 285, 592 58
3, 002, 307 13
1, 903, 718 59

$928, 951 6?
663, 868 08
540, 075 so

Total •••••••••••••••• 14, 318, 097 05118, O~l, 618 30

2, 138, 895 63

English.

.

..

Individuii!s.

Total d~moe·
tlo.

Total forol~n
mul domeat10•

$11, 662, 217 l2 $2, 300, 253 43 $5, 738, 708 05
11, 229, 546 96 1, 728, 120 40 1, 028, 929 86
6, 656, 847 80 1, 558, 084 09 1, 563, 000 Dl

$8, 448, 810 01
5, 080, 091 93
a, 869, 10s 42

$16, 403, 808 BO
7, 848, 148 10
o, 090, 053 02

$28, 155, 5Bu 01
10, 072, 005 15
18, 647, 800

29, 548, 611 88

11, 403, 600 30

a1, a21, 400 60

oo, 876, 0$1 48

Stntea.

bo iee.

...
6 per cent. stock ••••••••••. $3, 447, 672 85
3 per cent. stock •••••..•••• 6, 663, 371 75
Deferre<l 6 per cent. stock .• 4, 207, 053 35

5, 502, 464 52

s, aa1, 398 12

sa

.A. more detailed statement of funding operations under the provisions of law alreacly referred to and the
chanies subsequently made, will be found i~ ~he second part of this work.
'
he small amount of these stocks remammg unredeemed June 30 1880 i.s included in the monthly public debt
statement uncler the title of "old debt".
'
'
·

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

329-

SUBSCRIPTION LOAN OF 1791.
The first bank of the United States appears to have been proposed by Alexander Hamilton.
On the 14th of December, 1790, as shown by the journal of the House of Representatives of that date, the
Secretary of the Treasury transmittecl to the House a letter, accompanying his report No. 2, with a plan for the
institution of a national bank, which was read and referred to a committee of the whole.
On the 23d of December it was ordered: "That the clerk of the House do communicate to the Senate that this
Honse has received a report from the Secretary of the Treasury containing a plan for a national bank, and that he
carry an attested copy of the said report to the Senate."*
·
The bill to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the Unitell States passed the Senate January 20, li9lt
and was reported in the House of Representatives the following day, reacl twice aml referred.
On the 31st the Honse resolved itself into a committee of the whole, and the bill was read by paragra1Jhs; n<>
amendment being offered, the bill was reported and ordered to be read the third time on the succeeding day. The
debate on the passage of the bill began February 1. It took, immediately, a sectional form, .the bill being favored
by the members from the North and East, while it was opposed by most of the southern members.
The debate continued until February .S, when the bill passed the House by yeas 39, nays 20. An analysis of
the vote show1:i that but six members from the south of Masbn ltncl Dixon's line voted for the bill, while but 011e
member from the North voted against it.
The debates in tho Senate have not been preserved. James Madison, in the House, and James 1\fonroe, in the
Senate, each of whom afterward became President of the Unitecl States, voted against it.
On the 14th of February ib was presented to the President for his approval, received llis signaturr,, and became
a law Febrnnry 25, 1791 (1 Statutes, 191). In the interval he was occu1)ied in anxious and diligent inquiry into the
constitutionality of the bill, and asked the members of his cabinet for their advice on t_he subject. Edmund Randolph,
Attorney General, itrnl Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of State, gave their opinions, in writing, against it, while Hamilton
gave his written opinion on the other side. The opinions of the others do not appear.
The act provided in subst~nce that a bank should be established, with a capital stock of not exceeding
$10,000,000, divided into 25 1000 shares at $400 each. Subscriptions were to be payable one-fourth in gold or sil\•er
and three-fourths in that part of the public debt which bore 6 per cent. interest. The total amount of debts which
the corporation might 11t any time owe in any way, except for moneys actually deposited in the bank for safo keeping,
was never to exceed $10,000,000, and if' this limit was exceedecl the directors under whose administration it mig·ht
lHl})pen were to be personally liable for the excess.
,
The corporation was allowed to sell tlie evidences of the public debt subscribed to its stock, but was not to
purchase any public debt whatever. Notes were allowed to be issued, payable to ~tny person or persons, assigmtble
and negotiable, or to bearer assignable by delivery. The directors were to establish offices, for discount and deposit
only, wherever they should think fit in the Unitecl States. A report oft.be c01H1ition of the bank was to be furnishecl
whenever the Secretary of the Treasury required it, but not oftener than once a week. The President of the United
States was authorized to subscribe to the stock of the corporation $2,000,000, borrowing an equal sum of the bauk,
the money to be paid otit of that which should be obtained under previous acts of Congi:ess relating to the 1mblic
debt. The charter was to expire March 4, 1811.
A supplementary act, approved March 2, 1791 (1 Statutes, 196), extendecl the time for receiving subscriptions in
the stock of the United States, and limited the number of shares that might be subscribed by any person in any 01.ie
day to thirty.
The subscription of $2,000,000 to the stock of the bank by the President of the United States, under the
authorit.y of the act, was made, giving to the bank, J nne 25 and J nly 16, 1792, bills of exchange on Hollan cl,
equivalent to gold, and borrowing from the bank $2,000,000 for ten years at 6 per cent. interest.
The bank must have gone into operation Yery soon after the charter was .obtained, and before the subscription
of $2,0001000 was made by the Unitecl States, as a dividend of 4 per cent. was declared in July, 1792. So far as
the evidence goes, it appears that the bank was well managed, ancl was of great benefit to the government and the
people at large, assistiug the government b:y: loans in cases of emergency, and forcing the "wild-cat" banks of' the
country to keep their issues somewhere within reasonable bounds. More than $100,000,000 of government money
was received and disbursed by it without the loss of a single dollar. It made semi-annual dividends, averaging
about 8:} per cent., and its stock rose to a bigh i1ricc. The $2,000,000 of stock belonging to the Unitecl States was
sold out at different times at a profit, 2,220·shares sold in J802 bringing an advance of 45 per cent. The government
subscription, with ten years' interest, amounted to $3,200 1000, while there was received in dividends ancl for stock
sold $3,773,1380, a profit of $573,580, or nearly 28.7 per cent. As this transaotion was subsequently made the
subject of investigation by a committee of the Honse of Representatives, a full explanation of the method devisecl
to carry out the provisions of the act 11Utborizing a subscription loan, taken from official reports, is made. a part of
this paper.
•nocuweutury History of tho Bank oftbe Unitecl States, p. lf1.

t

330

VALUA1,ION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

By the published receipts and expenditures for 1792 (PP· 12, 54) there. app~ars, in connection w~th the clisposit~ou
nth' 1
"t several credits each for $2 000 000 as for moneys received mto the treasury, with correspondmg
01
IS oan,
WO
'
'
'
. rea l'ity t a lrn
f
paid out 'of the
treasury."
But neither the one nor th e oth er cl'd
i m
·t
deb1 s o equa1 .su ms , as for moneys
.
.
f h " t t ·
t
lace. The whole is a mere operation to accomplish the purposes of the eleventh section o t _e ac o mcorpora e
subscribers to the Bank of the United States" without an inconvenient and unnecessary drnplacement of fn~ds.
10
That section authorizes a subscription to the stock of the bank, on account o~ the government, not excee~lmg
·m amount $"
by vutne
.
. _,, 000 ,000, and provides for the IJayment of it out of the moneys which
. . should be borrowed
of either of the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790; the first making prov1s10u for the pt1b1IC debt, the last
for reducin"' it. enjoining at the same time that a loan should be made of the bank to an equal amount to replace
0
the moneys whlch were to be applied to the lJayment of the subscription.
The following plan for these purposes was devised and executed by previous concert: The treasurer clre~ ~ills
upon our commissioners in Amsterdam for the sums requisite to complete the payment on account of the subscnpt1011.
These bills were purchased by the bank, and warrants in favor of the treasurer upon the bank ser,red to place the
proceeds in the treasury. Warrants afterward issued upon the treasurer in favor of the bauk for the m;1otmt ?f
tlte subscription money, which was receipted for on the part of the bank as paid. Other warrants then issnell 111
favor of the treasurer upon the bank for equal sums, as upon account of a loan to the government, which warrants
were satisfied by a redelivery to the treasurer of the bills that had been drawn upon the commissioners. In the
last place warrants were 11rawn upon the treasurer to replace the moneys supposed by the arrangement to be
drawn frdm the foreign fund, which perfected. the operation. But, from the detail which has been given, it will
be seen that, in jaat, no moneys were either withdrawn from, or returned to, t.hat fnncl. The bills were canceled,
annexed to the warrants, and are lodged in the treasury as vouchers of the transaction.*

fi

TEMPORARY LOAN FROM BANK OF NOH.TH AMEI~IOA.
The committee appointed to examine the Treasury Department, &c., in their report to the House of Representatives, dated May 22, 1794, thus refer to this loan :t
An act of the 3d of March, 17911 entitled "An act for raising ancl adding another regiment to the military establishment of tho Uuitocl
States, and for making further provision for the protection of the frontiers," appropriatecl a sum not exoeecling $3121686 201 i;o be paid
out of tho moneys which, prior to the 1st of January fo'llowing, shoul11 arise from the clutie1:1 upon spirits clistillod within tho Uuitocl
States, and upon stills; and annexes the following power to borrow: "That it shall be l u.wful for the President to take, on loan, tho
whole sum by this act appropriated, or so much thereof as he may judge requisite, at an interest not oxceoding 61)er cent. por nmrnm; nilll
the fund established for the alJove appropriation is hereby pledged for the repayment; of the principal nnd interest of any loan tu bo
obtained, in manner aforesai1l; and, in case of any deficiency in the said fund, tho faith of tho Unitod States is horoliy also plcdg<ll1 to
make good such deficiency."
There being on hand and coming in moneys arising from the lHOceeds of foreign bills, whicl1 1 as the Secretary snggost;s, eonltl not bo
:ulvantageously appliecl to their destination, it was deemed aclvisable by him not to incur tho oxponso of a loan u1iou iutorost, hut to
olltain advances from the Bank of North America, leaving in deposit, as an offset, the sum of $177,991:! 081 being 1,he i1rocuo!ls of tho bills.
These a11Yanees, which were made to Joseph Howell, acting as paymaster to the Department of 'Var, wore nrn11e upon suuclry lettors of
the Secretary of the Trensnry, between the 19th of September, 17911 and the 3cl of January, 17921 amounting to $UiCi1fi95 Gli, an<l wore
carried, by direction, to an account distinct from that of the treasurer which was ke11t under the heacl of "'.l~ho Uuitocl Stntos". '£ho
advances since have been reimbursed, mul the proceeds of the bills carried to the clebit of tl.io treasurer of tho United States.

TEMPORARY LOAN OF 1792.
The Secretary of the Treasury, iu his report elated .!Yiarch 16, 1792, in reply to a resolution of the Ilouse of
Hepresentatives asking for "his opinion of the best mode of raising the additional supplies requisite for the ensuing
year", estimated, as the amonnt necessary for carrying into effect the act for making fnrther ancl more e:trectm:il
provision for the protection of the frontiers, bey on cl the appro1)riations for the support of the govemrnenb for 17V2 1
at $6i5,950 08, with a probable surplus revenue from duties applicable to the i)art payment of this sum at $150 000
i eavmg
·
·
'
'
a aefi ciency
to be provided for amounting to $525,950 08. Three expedients for providing this amount
suggested themselves to the Secretary: One, "to dispose of the government stock in the Bank of the United States
which, at the market price at that time, would yield a clear gain to the government much more than adequate t~
the sum required;" another, "to borrow the money, upon an establishment of funds either merely commensurate
'\\~ith the interest to be paicT, or affording a surplus which will discharge the principal by installments within a sl1ort
time;» the third, "to raise phe amount b;y taxes." Believing the first of these expedients "altogether unaclvisable"
a~d the second ineligible unless "accompanied with a provision sufficient not only to pay the interest lmt t~
llisc?arge the principal within a short period", the Secretary recommended the last proposition as far pr~ferable
to ei~er, and says: "Nothing carr more interest the national credit and prosperity than a constant and systematio
attent1~n to lms?and all the means previously possessed for extinguishing the present debt, and to avoid, as much
as possible, the mcurring of any new debt.":j:
"American Sta: e Papers, "Pinance," vol. i, pp. 193, 194.

tlbid., p. 2S4.

t Ibid, p. 158, 150.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

331

The repeal of then existing duties on certain articles was advised, and a new schedule submitted, from whicll
an estimate of increased revenue was anticipated, on the faith of which a temporary loan might be negotiated,
ti' authority for making the same was provided by law.
The recommendations of the Secretary were adopted, the duties were increased, and pro>isions for a temporary
loan were made by the act of May 2, 1792 (1 Statutes, 262), which authorized the President of the United States
to borrow the sum of $5231500, at a rate of interest not exceeding 5 per cent. per annum, redeemable at the pleasure
of the government, the sarne to be applied towarcl carrying into effect the provisions of the act. Under this
authority the sum of $400,000 was borrowed of the Bank of the United States.
TEMPORARY LOAN OF 1793.
The condition of the treasury at the close of the year 1702 was unsatisfactory. The increased expenditures,
on ncco1mt of Indian troubles, and the large amount requisite for the payment of the interest on the public debt,
added to the growing demands for current service, seemed likely to exhaust the revenues, and it was evillent
that some additional resources must be provided to meet the emergency. The House of Hepresentatives, by
resolutions of November 21ancl22, 1792, referred to the Secretary of the Treaslll'y the subject of providing a. l>hm
for the redemption of the public debt according to the rights of the government then existing, ancl also for the
reimbursement of the subscription loan made of the Bank of the United States, according to the provisions of the
law authorizing it.
In reply thereto the Secretary, in his report of the 30th of November, submitted such reeommenclatious as, in
his judgment, would result in the accomplishment of the object desired.
For the first, temporary loans from time to time, equal to the sums anmmlly redee111al1le, secured by a pledge
of the same revenues then appro1)l'iatecl for the payment of interest and the establishment of additional revenues
by taxation, were the only resources rnmaining. For the second, that power be given by htw to borl'ow the sum
due, to be applied to the reimbursement of the loan, as required by the eleYenth section of the act of incorporation,
and that so much of the dividend, on the stock of the government in the bank, us was necessm'y be appro11ril1ted
for the payment of the interest on the sum to be borrowed, as by this operation a saving to the government would
result equal to the difference between the interest on the new loan and thn.t payable on the sum due the bank at
that time.* In conformity with these recommendations, section 3 of the act approved February 28, 1703 (1 Statutes,
328), "making appropriation for the support of the government fo~· 1703," g-ranted the President authority to
borrow the sum of $800,000, at an interest not exceeding 5 per cent., r0imbursable at the pleasure of the United
States, to be applied for the purposes specified in the act; and also in·ovided for the redem1)tion of the loan made
of the Bank of t.he United States, as authorized by section 11 of tho act by which it was incorporated, in sums of
$50,000, from time to time, as, in tho opinion of the Secretary, the state of the, treasnry woul(l admit.
The contract for this loan wa::i made May 31, 1703, the mori0y to be advancocl in four eqnal monthly iustallrnents
from .June 1, ancl to bea,r interest at 5 per cent. from the date of ::inch adyance.
TE:M:PQRA.RY LOAN .FROM BANK OF NEW YORK
Ou the 16th of December, 1793, the President, in a, special message, tnmsmitted to Cong'l'ess a revort of the
Secretary of State on the measures wbich had been taken on behalf of the go¥ermnent for the purpose of obtaining
a l'ecognition of our treaty with Morocco, and for the ransom of our citizens and establishment of })eace with
.Algiers. This report was considered in committee of the whole, and a series of resolutions adopted, as follow:,; :t
Ro8okC1l, That i~ sum not oxccecling - ·- clollars bo appropriated, in acldition to tho provision horotoforo mallo, to defray 1111Y, expense
which may bo incurred in relation to tho intcrcourso botweon tho Unitecl States and foreign nations.
Roaol!,od, That a naval force adequate to the protection of the commerce of tho United States against the Algorino corsairs oug·ht to Lo
pruvidctl.
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to report to this I-louse tho uavi1l forco necessary for tho purposes aforesaicl, toge·ihcr with
·an estimate of tho ex1Jense, and tho ways ancl means for clefraying the same.

In their report to the House on the 20th of January, 1794, the committee say that, from the best information
they could obtain, the naval force of the Algerines consisted of light vessels, of different size ancl force (exclusive of
gaDe;rs), carrying in the whole 282 guns; that it had not varied considerably for many years past; the vessels
(except two or three) were slenderly built, smaller in size than vessels of war, carrying the same number of guns,
belonging to the Ohristian powers, and were iwincipally manned with people little rrccustomecl to the management of large ships. The committee recommended that a naval force, to consist of four ships of forty-four and two
ships of twenty guns each be provided for the protection of the commerce of the United States against the
..A.lgerine corsairs; and for defraying the cost of such armament and the annual expense thereof, there be levied an
"American State Papers, "Fin1incc," vol. i, pp. 170-178.

t Annals of Congress, J anmny 2, 1794.

332

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

increasecl rate of duties on certain articles specified in their report.* A long debate followed this report, the main
features of which were subsequently adopted. Meanwhile, upon the report of a subcommittee, to whom the House
had referred the resolutions of the 2(1 of January, a bill was introduced March 12, ''making farther provision for
the expenses attending the intercourse of the United States with foreign nations;" and it passed the House without
debate. There appears to have been no discussion on the bill in the Senate, and it became a law March 20, 1704
(1 Statutes, 345). The act appropriated $1,000,000, and authorized the President to borrow the whole, or any part
of said sum, an account of the expenditure whereof, as soon as might be, to be laid before Congress. Under the
authority of this act, a loan of $200,000 was procured from the Bank of New York~ at 5 per cent. interest, payable
June s, 1796.
TEl\IPOH.A.RY LOAN OF MA.ROH, 1794.
On the 5th of February, 1794, the Secretary of the Treasury submitted a report to the Honse of Representatives, from which it appeared that the probable demands upon the treasury to the 1st of April wonl<l amount to
$1,360,812 07, while the available resources for the same time would probably fall short of this amount $621,29418.t
The report was referred to a committee, with imitructions to submit to the House whether any, and what, stun
would be necessary to be loaned for the purpose of carrying on the public service fo;e the year 1794. In tbe debate
which ensued upon the report of the committee, which was, that, in their opinion, it was expedient that the
President be authorized to borrow, on the credit of the United States, a sum not exceeding $1,000,000, if, in his
opinion, the public service shoukl require it, it was stated: "That, however inadequate the actual receipts of the
revenue might be to discharge all the demands made on the government, there was, in fact, no deficiency in the
funds appropriated to the (Uscharge of those demands; the deficit was owing merely to the credit, which, for the
convenience and benefit of trade, was allowed to the merchants; and that, in fact, the bonded duties were more
than equal to meet all the demands on the treasury. This credit it woulcl be remembered extended from four
months to two years''; * * * "while it was true that all the demands on the treasury might not be made at the
precise moment they became due," * * * '~and that the estimated deficiency might not be justified by events, yet
it was the duty of the legislatlU'e to put tlie preservation of the public credit almost beyond the reach of the
possibility of being injured."+ The report of the select committee was agreed to, and a bill in conformity thereto
having been reported to the House March 3, and, passing both houses, it was approved by the President March
20, 1794 (1 Statutes, 345). The act authorizeli the President to borrow, if in his opinion the public service should
require it, a sum not exceeding $1,000,000, at an interest not exceeding 5 per cent., reimbursable at the pleasure
of the United States, to be applied to such public purposes as were authorized by law, to be repaid out of the
duties on imports ancl tonnage to the encl of the year 1794. This loan was obtained from the Bank of the Unitccl
States.
TEMPORARY LO.AN OF JUNE, 1794.
lhe report of the committee recommending a naval armament for the protection of American commerce against
the .Algerines, was, after some moclification, finally adopted, and, having passed both houses, was approved, and
became a law March 27, 1794 (1 Statutes, 350). Although it authorized the President "to provide, by purchase or
otherwise, equip, and employ four ships to carry forty-four guns each, and two ships to carry thirty-six guns each",
yet there was no appropriation to pay for the same contained in the act; and in order to remedy this defect, ancl
guard a~ainst any deficiency in the revenues, the President was authorized by section 2 of the act of June o, 1794
(1 Statutes, 395), to borrow the sum of $1,000,000. Under this authority, a loan of this amount was obtained from
the Bank of the United States, at 5 per cent. interest. The money was received August 27, 1794, and was re1mid
April 1, 1795.
TEMPORARY LOAN OF DEOEMBER, 1794.
Such were the exigencies of the public service at the commencement of the last session of the Thircl Congress
that means .had to be provided in anticipation of the revenues of the ensuing year, and on the 8th of December,
1794, a committee was appointed by the House of Representatives to prepare and bring in a bill to authorize the
President to procure a loan not exceeding $2,000,000. The hill was reported the next day, and passed the House
on the 10th, apparently without debate. It became a law December 18, 1794 (1 Statutes, 404), ancl under its
provisions the P1·esident was authorized to borrow any sum not exceeding $2,000,000, at 5 per cent. interest,
reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States, to be applied to such public purposes as were authorized by law,
and repaid out of the duties on imports and tonnage for the year 1795. A loan of $2,000,000 was obtained from
the Bank of the United States under this act, $1,000,000 of which became payable January 1, and the remainder
April 1, 1796.
.
#American State Papers, "Naval Affairs," vol. i, p. 5.
tlbid., "Finance," vol. i, p. 272.

t Annals of Congress, l!'ebruary 281 1794.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

333

TEMPORARY LOAN OF FEBRUARY, 1795.
On the 4th of February, 1795, the President transmitted to Congress a special message, with a letter from the
Secretary of State, relative to an additional loan for the maintenance of the intercourse of the United States with
foreign nations, the object of this communication being for the purpose of' securing aclditional authority for the
negotiation of a loan, requisite at the earliest possible date, in order to procure the release of American citizens held
·as prisoners in .Algiers. The authority asked for was granted, and by an fict approved February 21, 1795 (1 Statutes
418), the Bank of the United States was authorizecl to lend to the government the whole, or any part, of th~
sum of $800,000 (remaining unappliecl), in pursuance of the authority granted by the act of March 20, 1794 (1
Statutes, 345). Under this authority, a loan of $800,000 was procured from the Bank of the United States, at 6
per cent. interest, payable quarterly, the principal to be refunded in four annual installments of $200,000 each,
payable December 31, 1796, 1797, 1798, and 1799. This lon,n was received from the bank in G per cent. stock of
the United States, which was transmitted to Messrs .. Baring & Oo., of London, to be sold on account of the
government, and the proceeds held by them subject to the order of the minister of the United States at Lisbon.
With regard to this operation, Secretary Wolcott says : *
A conviction of the urgency of tho case, and a disposition to accommodate tho government, alone induce the bank to consent to tho
loan, as the stock was salable in large quantities at par, including interest. Bills of exchange were not readily obtainable, and the sudden
exportation of so considerable a sum of specie woul(l have been attended with inconvenient effects. Indeed, no alternative o:fl'erecl but to
renounce the negotiation, or to remit stock ns a fund. Various causes operated to produce a depression of the prices of all kinds of public
stock, soon after the remittances, harl been made.

TEMPORARY LO.AN OF MARCH, 1795, A.
On the 26th of December, 1795, the Secretary of the Treasury reported to the commissioners of the smkrng
fund that, to provide for the payment of the interest on the public debt which would fall due at the close of the
current year, it would be necessary to anticipate the. appropriated revenues· to the amount of $500,000, and
recommended that a loan for this sum be procured from the Bank of the United States for one year, at 6 per cent.
interest. These recommendations were adopted and approved by the President. In accordance therewith, a
contract was made with the Bank of the United States, December 31, for a loan of $500,000, redeemable in one
year, with interest at 6 per cent., payable semi-annually, reserving to the government the right of ·reimbursement
at pleasure, after giving one month's notice to the bank of•its intention to do so.t This loan was made under the
authority granted by the act of March 3, 1795 (1 Statutes, 433).
TEMPORARY LO.AN OF MARCH, 1795, B.
Under the provisions of s1::ction 6 of the act of March 3, 1795 (1 Statutes, 439), the Secretary of the Treasury
. was authorized by the President to negotiate a temporary loan of $500,000, in anticipation of the revenues for that
year, and this amount was procured from the Bank of the United States, at an interest of 6 per cent., from January
1, 1796, the loan to be reimbursed on or before December 31, 1797.
TEMPORARY LOAN OF MAROH, 17951 O.
The necessity for negotiating another loan of $500,000 is clearly set forth in a letter to the President from
Secretary Wolcott, dated July 29, 1795, by which it is shown that, in addition t@ the current and ordinary expenses
of the government, ancl the payments for interest on the domestic debt, there will shortly be required, in payment
for 6 per cent. stock purchased by the late Secretary for the purpose of a remittance on account of the principal
and interest of the Dutch debt, t tl).e sum of $500,000; by the holders of foreign bills which had been drawn on and
accepted by the Treasury, $453,750; for the payment of the loan obtained from the Bank of New York in October,
1794, $200,000; and three installments, of $100,000 each, due the Bank of the trnited States on account of the loan
obtained under the contract of May 25, 1792. .After making this statement the Secretary says: "As it is certain
that the l)roduct of the ordinary revenues will be inadequate to the de~ands for the current service and the
reimbursement of all those capitals, the Secretary requests the permission of the President to borrow the sum of
*American State Papers, "Foreign Relations," vol. i, p. 555.
t A. S. P., "Finance," vol. ii, pp. 371, 372.
t In a report on the "condition ·of the Treasury Dopartment'', made to the House of Represent.atives January ZS, 1801, the committe6
refer to this transaction as follows: "It appears from the correspondence of the treasury with the bankers in Holland, which the
eommittee have ca1·efully examinecl, that an expeetation was entertained that the stock would be solc1 at par, including interest; 01·, that
the installment of principal due in Hollancl, for the payment of which the stock was intended to provide, would be continued on loan by a
new contract. Although both of these expectations were disappointed, in consequence of the unfortunate situation of Holland at that
time, yet it clearly appears to the committee that every measure within the power of the Secretary was adopted to render the remittanoe
as productive as possible.''-A. S. P., "Finanoe;" vol. i, IJ· 693.

334

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

$ oo,ooo, which he will endeavor so to apply as to prevent an accumulation of debt-bearing i~terest." This authority
5
'dent and under the provisions of the act of March 3, 1795, section 6 (1 Statutes, 439), a
was gran t ed b y the P r esl
'
'
.
f
0 t b ,
7nr.:
d
loan was obtained of the Bank of the United States, to bear mterest at 6 per cent., rom c o er 1, 1 vo, an
reimbursable in one year.
TEMPORARY LO.AN OF 1798.
The seventh installment of $200,000, due on the subscription loan of the Bank of the United States, b:ca.me
payable December 31 , 1798, and such was the condition of the treasury towards the clbo ~e oftthatkyearh-o:vtm ? to
the general receipts having fallen short of the expenditUl'e_s-that the Secr~tary was o ig~c1 o as aut or1 y ·1Tbm
the President, through the commissioners of the sinking fund, to. borrow this amount. Th1S request was _ap.~)roved
b President .Adams and accordingly a contract was made, bearmg date December 31, 1798, for a loan of $ . . . 00,00~
the Bank of th~ United States, at 6 per cent. interest, payable January 1, 18.03, or sooner, at the ple~sure of
the government, after one month's notice.* This loan was made under the authority granted by the act of Mo,rch
3, 1795 (1 Statutes, 435).
TEMPORARY LOAN FROM BANK OF NEW YORK.

1

r:Om

In 1796 the Secretary obtained a temporary loan of $320,000 from the Bank of New York, the larger l)Ort.i~n
of which was more of a reloan than otherwise, it being merely a continuance of the loan mado by the same b:mk m
1794. The remainder ($120,00.0) was used in part payment of the l~an obtained fr01~ the ~an!~.of ~~e. United ~tn'.tes
in 1792 the rate of interest bemg the same as on the former loan, viz, 6 per cent. The anthont,y for its ncgotmtwn
was co~ferred upon the commissioners of the sinking fund, subject to the approviLl of the President of the United
States, as set forth in section 1 of the act of May 31, 17!Hi (1 Statutes, 488).

FOUR AND A HALF AND FIVE AND A HALF PER OENT. STOOKS OF 17!:15.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his report embodying a plan "on the basis of the actual revenues for the fnrt.lwr
support of public credit", communicated to the Senate January 20, 1795, estimated the total debt of the United
States at $76,096,468 67, of which $13,745,379 35 was foreign debt, due in France and Hollancl. The expemlit,nre
for the year, for interest on this debt aml for the current expenses of the.government, was estimated at $5,681,8•13 s,t
and the revenue at $6,552,300 74, leaving an estimated surplus of $870,456 90 to be carried to the sinking fund. I1i1:1
remarks in relation to the foreign debt were as follows:t·
The payment of interest and installments of principal of our foreign debt in tbe countries where it was contracted is found by oxpllrlmwo
to be attended with difficulty, embarrassment, some loss, ancl a degree of casualty which occasionally puts in jcopimly the nati01rnl crndl t.
Loans for reimbursement must be made beforehand, as the market suits, aucl necessarily involve double interest for 11 greater or less tinw.
The procuring of bills to be remitted for payment of interest cannot be dependecl upon in coincideneo with tho periods of payment, w11ieh,
co-operating with clistance, renders inconvenient anticipations necessary.
The remitting in commodities would be liable to other casualties ancl to some peculiar objections; ancl whatever moilo be ndoptua, it.
m11y be frequently not practicable to deposit in season the necessary funds on the spot without gre11t sacrifices. If, therefore, tho i1faco of
these payments could, with consent of the creditors, upon 11n equitable indemnification to them for tho tmnsfor, bo ehangecl to tllo Unitecl
States, the operation would be, in various lights, beneficial. It has occurred that the present posture of tho affairs of Europe might favor
a plan of this kind, and perhaps produce some collateral advantages. Under this iclea an oxporirneut is nroposod. Tho iiropusc«l
augmeutat.ion of interest is intended as an indemnification for the expense aml hazard of agencies in this country, doln.ys in romitta11co,
inconvenience of distant negotiation, renunciation of the facilities which 11ttend the receipt of interest at homo, risks of loss by oxc1111ug1i,
&c., and is calcnlatedon a liberal scale, in order to induce an acceptance of the proposition.
H, instead of an increase of interest, the option of an eq11ivalent be given by way of premium, in stock bearing 11n interest of' 5 per cout,, 1
it would h~ve attractions for certain creditors, and would facilitate the success of the measure. On strict calculation, the oqnh·r~lont
would be six dollars .and fifty-eight cents per one hundred dollars of the principal subscribed. It is not porceivod that t110 interests of tho
United States could suffer by a1lowing the alternative. The :fixing of the rate of interest by postponing tho reimbursement to tlrn yen1· 1818
would ~lso be a powerful inducement. Ancl till the period of reimbursement arrives, any surplus of tho sinking fnncl which mny ox:hit
can lie mvested m 1mrchases, so as to prevent the progress of the fund being arrested.
It could not be necessary to observe, except for the sake of dispelling jealousy or apprehension on the part of the creditors that. wMlo
the plan is in e.i:perime11t, and afterward, with regard to all who do not embrace it, everything is to procQocl ns heretofore aucl as th~ contracts
respecting the debt require.
·
'
The auxiliary proposition of giving power to the commissioners of the sinking fund to remit certific11tes for sale is founded upon n
belief that t?is operation will.sometimes be prneticable, where direct loans cannot be e:ffectecl, and will be occasionally 11 more beucfio.ial
mode of reDllttance than by bills of exchange.
·

He therefore proposed : t
That provision be ~ade for converting, by a new loan, the wh~le of our present foreign into domestic debt, upon these terms, to wib 1
!hat f?r. any sum i:ubscnbed to the new loan, anrl paid in the principal of the present foreign debt of tho United States, there be allow<!cl,
m addition to the mterest now payable upon such principal, tho further yearly interest of t per contum or in lieu thereof at tho option
of each su?serib~r, an equivalent sum in capital stock, bearing 11n interest of 5 per con tum per annum;' th~t tho whole iutt'rest upon tho
new loan, mclndingthat upon the capital stock, to be given as an equivalent for the additional t per cont. shall remain fixecl until tho
*American State Pap11rs, "Finance," vel. ii, p. 373.

t Ibid. 1 vol. i, p. 331.

Ubid., p. 327.

HISTORY OF 'I1HE NATIONAL LOANS.
first clay of January, 1818, at which time, and not sooner, ~he principal of the said new loan, including the said capital stock given as an
equivalent, may and shall be reimbursed, except as to such subscribers as may prefer a shorter term ofreimbursemcmt, who may elect any
term not less than fifteen years; that tho permanent revenues shall be and remain firmly pledged for the payment of the said interest,
until the reimbursement of the said principal, to be paid quarter-yearly, as that of the present funded domestic debt; and, lastly, that
the commissioners of the sinking fund be empowered, with the approbation of the President, to provide by new loans for the reimbursement
of any installment, or part of principal, of the present foreign debt, or of the lo.an to be made thereupon as aforesaid, either by direct
borrowing or by sale, in the market, of certificates of stock, so as the said loan, or the said certific11tcs of stock, shall bear an interest not
exceeding 6 per centum per annum, ancl shall be liable to reimbursement within a term not exceeding twenty-four years. The interest
upon the capital reimbursec1, and, in aid thereof, the permanent revenues to be pledged for the interest upon the loans or stock to be made
or created by virtue of the said power.

In accordance with. these suggestions, a bill "making further provision for the su11port or public credit" was
introduced in the House of Representatives, February 14, 1795. The bill was under discussion for several clays,
but the debate was gcnerall;y confined to the sections respecting the domestic debt. A motion was made to strike
out the section proposing an additional half per cent. to the holders of the foreign debt, if they subscribed the same
to the domestic debt, on the ground that nothing would be saved, as the half per cent. would amount to more than
the amount lost in exchange on remittances .to Europe. It was said that a single concern in Holland were the
directors of the chief' of our loans in Europe, receiving, as interest alone, between five and six hundred thousand
dollars annually, aml that the command by one firm of such eno1mous sums of mOIJ<'Y to be drawn, as the bill
proposed, quarterly from the treasury, wonk! be dangerous to the trade of the country, forcing tile banks to narrow
their discounts, and causing stringency in the money market. After debttte, the motion was withdrawn, ~ind the
bill passed both houses, and was approved March 3, 1795 (1 Sta,tutes, 433).
The section relating to the foreign debt provided that a loan be openell at the treasnr:v to the full amount or
the foreign debt, and that subscriptions to said loan should be payable in equal sums of the l.1rincipal of the foreign '
debt, stock to be issued to bear an interest of one-half per cent. greater than was then paJTable on the stock
subscribed. The principal of the stock issued was to be reimb;usable at the pleasure of the United States.
It was found impossible to effect the conversion of the Holland loans. Oliver Wolcott, jr., Secretary of the
Treasury, in his report, December 14, 1795, says iu reference to this subject:*
Measures have been taken for ascertaining whether tho residue of the foreign debt, due inAmst'erdam and Antwerp, could be reloanetl
with the consent of tho c.reditors. Tho experiment cannot yet bo considered as fully made, but tho prospect of success is not encouraging.
The objections against a mutation of the contracts in the manner proposed, which have been statecl, are, generally:
1. That the proposed new stock will bo redeemable at the pleasure of the Unitecl States, by which condition the government will
possess the power 'of recluciug the rate of. interest 01• rcfuncliug the c11pital at periocls when the reimbursement may be difficult or
disadvantageous to the creditors.
2. That the proposed aclclition of .one-half per centum per annum to the rates of interest, docs not afford an equivalent for t;he
expenses of the agency, loss upon the oxcliange, and the risk of remittances from America.
3. That the facilities which attencl tho negotiation of bonds iiayable to bearer, over fnncls which can only bo transferred at tlm
treasury or loan offices in tho United States, render the q.bligations of the foreign debt, in their present form, part.icnlarly eligible fol' foreign
crecli tors. • • •
Considering the actual state of Holland and the restrictions upon our intercourse with that country, it was deemed for the interest of
the United States to propose a post11onemont of the installment which fell due in the present year. It has, however, been conclusively
ascertained that no adclitional loans can be obtained in Holland; and of course the United States must be i1rovided to make the
reimbnrsements sti1mlated in their contracts.
The measures acloptecl by this department to effect a reimbursement were seasonable, and such as promised to be effectual, but, owing
solely to the war, and the stagnation of credit occasioned by the Revolution, the installment which fell due on the 1st of June had not
been paicl, at the date of the last advices in August. The causes of the clelay were, however, well understood by the creditors, ancl as
they neither originated with, nor could be controllecl by, the Unitecl States, and as the interest has been paid, the public credit has yet
sufi'ered no blemish.

The "actual state of Holland", referred to by the Secretary, was the fact that, after a disastrous war with
the republic of France, the country had been conquered by the enemy. The numerous ri.vers and canals of Holland
render the country easily defensible, and have al ways made its invasion a difficult task, but in the winter of 1794-'95t
during intensely cold weather, the watery defenses were frozen, and the French army, under comman~l of General
Pichegru, crossing on the ice in overpowering strength, were soon in possession of the kingdom.
··
The foreign debt not payable in Holland was due to the gover:nment of France, and the revolutionary
authorities of that conntry proved easier to deal with in the conversion than the private holders of the Holland
loans. The terms of conversion provided for in the act of March 3, 1795, were accepted by .James Swan, the
authorized agent of France, and the full amount of the debt due that country, consisting of balances due on
·various loan accounts, was subscribed and paid for in the new stock. The a.mount so subscribed was $2,024,900,
which, by the original contracts, bore interest, part at 4 and part. at 5 per cent. Certificates of stock were
therefore issued as provided for in the act, bearing interest at one-half per cent. more than had been previously
paid on the amount subscribed. Of these certificates, $176,000 bore interest at 4~, and $1,848,900 at 5~ per cent.
The issue of these certificates closed the accounts of the French debt, and it became merged in the domestic
debt of the United States. A small amount of this stock was received for lands in 1797. Redemption of the
remainder began in thQ ,year 1807, and was completed in 1815.
*American State Papers, "Finance," vol, i, p. 360.

336

VALUATION, TAXNI1ION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.
SIX PER CENT. STOCK OF 1796.

Under the act of May 31 1796 an abortive attempt was made by the government to borrow $5,0001000 for
the purpose of paying a debt clue th~Bank of the United States. The bank, since.its charter in 1791, had made many
temporary loans to the government in cases of emergency, and in anticipation of the revenues. In 1796 the United
States owed the bank for loans $6,000.000, and complaints were made by the president and directors that so large a
debt crippled tlle operations of the b~nk, caused them to refuse discounts to their private customers, and created n
.perpetual stringency in tbe money market. It was a further subject of complaint tllat ~be government paid but 5 and G
per cent. for these loans, while the current rate of interest was 8 or 0. A part of this money had been borrowed to
pav the expenses of suppressing the whisky insurrection in Pennsylvania, and another large sum had been used
to~buy a treaty with the iiirates of .Algiers. The government had yet to learn that iron ancl steel, backed by
gunpowder, were more efficient metals tban gold and silver in negotiating treatie.s with the barbarians of northern
.Africa.
The subject of making provision for tlle debts due the Bank of the United States was considered in committee
-Of the whole .April 12, 1'796, and was under discussion for many days, the debate covering the whole subject of the
national debt, tlle operations of the bank, and the propriety or the possibility of raising money by a new loan at Gper
cent. when the current rate of money was so much higher. A committee was appointed to confer with the officers
-0f the bank on the subject of continuing to a remote period the loans macle by the bank to the United States, and
this r,ommittee reported, May 3, the answer of the bank as follows:*
The board took into consideration the most essential points that bad relation to the present subject, viz: the great increase in the
price of all alienable property, which requires a corresponding addition of circulating medium to represent it; tbe necessity of placing
tb's institution in a more respectable situaHon, in point of available funds, which will enable it to promote more generally the interests of
-commerce and manufactures, and afford the means of facilitating the financial operations of the government by temporary loans, whenever
the fiscal administration may require such a resource; as well as the more immediate advantages of the stockholders and euat6roers of the
'bank, intimately connected with the active employment of a large specie capital: Whereupon,
Reaolved; That the United States be requested to extinguish the loans that are already due to the bank, as well as to make provision
for those which may become payable in the course of the present year.

This report occasioned another long debate, in which the proposition was made to sell the stock held in the
bank, and a provision was finally inserted to. allow its sale, or a portion of it, if deemed advantageous by the
.commissioners of the sinking fund.
The bill passed both houses, and was approved May 31, 1796 (1 Statutes, 488) .. It provided that it should be
Iawful for the commissioners of the sinking fund, with the approbation of the President of the United States, to
borrow any sum not exceeding $5,000,000, to be applied to the payment of the principal o.f any part of the debt
.of the United States due or to become due during the year 1796 to the·Bank of the United States or the Bank of New
York, and to pay any installment of the foreign debt. Certificates were to be issued for the money borrowed, to bear
.an interest of 6 ·per cent., the principal to remain fixed and irredeemable until the year 1819, then to be redeemable at
the pleasure of the United States. No certificate was to be issued for any less sum than $100. The commissioners
were to be ailowed t-0 sell these certificates to raise the money, but no more than one moiety of the stock was to be sold
under par. They might, if deemed advantageous, raise part of the money by selling the bank stock belonging t-0
the government.
·
Such portion of the public revenues as were heretofore pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
certain debts, and which would be set free by their payment under this act, were pledged for the payment of the
interest and the reimbursement of the principal of the new stock.
The attempt t& borrow money under this act was almost a total failure. Only $80,000 were obtained, at a discount
of 12.Z per cent., yielding in cash. $70,000. It was evident that the market was already overloaded with United
States stocks, there being of the demestic debt afloat $63,216 1238 121 which was selling at a heavy discount. There
being no other immediate resource, United States Bank stock to the amount of $1 1304 260 was sold at a premium of 25
per cent., and with this a portion of the debt clue the bank was paid.
'
NAVY SIX PER CENT. STOOK.

In 1797 the United States possessed neither navy nor navy department. During the trollbles with the Barbary ·
Powers, in 1794, an attempt was made to create a small navy, by building six frigates four of forty-four guns ancl
two of thirty-six guns each, for the protection of our commerce in the Mediterranea~. These frigates were begun
nndel? many disadvantages-one each at the ports of Portsmouth, in New Hampshire Portsmouth in Viro'iniu Boston
New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. The t~mber from which they were to b~ con~tructed was :till ~tandin~
in the forest, the iron was still in its native ore, the seed for the flax and hemp was yet to be sown. t ·Copper could
not be procured in the United States. The government possessed neither navy-yards nor cannon foundries. It
*Annals of 4th Cong., lat sess., p. 1295.

t Ainerican State Papers, "Naval Affairs," vol. i, p. 6.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

337

was resolved to puild the ships of live-oak, and agents, with a force of lumbermen, were dispatched to Georgfa to
obtain it. These men met with so many discouragements, from the unhealthiness of the climate, the constant rain,
and other causes, that but slow progress was made. In January, 1796, a committee of the Rouse of Representatives
reported that the frigates were still unfinished, and that, as peace had been made with the Barbary Powers, it was
not advisable to finish them all at that time, but recommended that two should be com1}leted. In I W7 the six vessels
were still on the stocks, but, owing to the troubles with France, it became very evident that the United States must
have a navy, and it was resolved to complete the frigates, to build galleys for the defense of the coast, and to purchase
such merchant vessels as were adapted for naval service, not exceeding twelve. The act of April 27, 1798, ''to
provide au additional armament for the protection of the trade of the United States," appropriated $900,000 for the
purchase of these vessels. On the 22d of June, 1798, an act supplementary to the act of April 27 was reported in
the House of Representatives, and passed on the 23c1, almost without debate, though some opposition appears to have
manifested itself at different times to taking any steps whatever for the creation of a, navy.
The act supplementary to the act to provide an additional armament for the i)rotection of the trade of the
United States was approved June 30, 1798 (1 Statutes, 575). It authorized the ;J?resiclent to accept such vessels,
not exceeding twelve, as were suitable· to be armed for the public service, ancl to issue, in payment therefor,
certificates or other evidences of the public debt of the United States, bearing interest at not more than 6 per cent.
per annum, and redeemallle at the pleasure of Congress. Under this act the ships George Washington, Merrimack,
Maryland, and Patapsco, brig Richmond, and frigates Boston, Philadelphia, John Adams, Essex, and New York
were purchased, 1:),11(1 6 per cent. stock to tile amount of $711 1700 was issued in payment. Besides the stock, money
·was in some cases given in part payment, under the app1•opriationof April 27, 1798. The idea of purchasing vessels
and issuing stock in payment therefor seems to have originated with Alexander Hamilton.*
EIGHT PER CENT. LOAN OF 1798.

In the years 1797 and 1798 the Unitecl States, though nominally at peace with all the world, was actually at
war with France, a war not formally declared, but carried on, upon the ocean, with very great virulence.
Oonstant captures were being made of American vessels on the ground of having the pro11erty of the enemy on
board. When captured, these vessels were carried into French 110rts and condemned on the slightest pretext. The
directory ordered that Americans found serving on ·board hostile armed vessels should be treated as J?irates, even
although they might plead compulsion in excuse. In other words, American citizens impressed by the British were
made liable to be hanged by the French.
a John Marshall, Elbridge Gerry, and Oharles 0. Pinckney were appointed envoys extraordinary to the French
ftlpublic. Their letters of credence and full powers cleclared them to have been appointed for terminating all
differences and restoring harmony, good understanding, and commercial and friendly intercourse between the two
republics. Their efforts, however, were vain.
Preparations were now made in the United States to resist a French invasion. The President was authorizecl
to call out eighty thousand militia in case of need, the regiments of regulars in service were ordered to be raised
to their full complement of seven hundred men each, ancl authority was given to raise twelve additional regiments
of infantry, with six troops of dragoons, to serve during the existing clifficulties with France. Bills were passed
for the purchase or lease of cannon foundries and the procuring of additional armecl vessels, with a,ppropriations
to the amount of $1, 750,000 for the purchase of ships, cannon, small-arms, and military stores. For the manage·
ment of naval affairs a separate naval department was now, for·the first time, created. Merchant vessels were
antllo1'ized to arm for their own defense, and commanclers of ships of war were orde1·ed to capture and bring into
port any French ship of war or privateer found depredating on American commerce.
It was evident that the ordinary revenues of the country would be inadequate for the increased ex1}encliture,
and that a loan would be required. On the 19th of June, 1798, a bill was introduced to enable the President to
i·aise a loan, which was read twice and referred to a committee. It came up for dis~ussion in the House on the 25th
of June. There appears to have been no dispute as to the necessity of a loan, but much objection was made to the
fact that the bill :fixed neither the amount to be raised, the interest to be paid, nor the time at which the loan
should be redeemaOle. It was said thait it would be impossible to spend a very large sum during the recess of
Oong.ress, and tho,t if a defin'.ite sum was fixed and more were needed, in consequence of a sudden invasion, Oongress
could be immediately called together. On the question of the amount of interest, Mr. Gallatin said that it would
be in· the power of money-lenders and the Bank of the United States to combine and compel the Sec1·etary of the
Treasury to pay a much higher interest than would be possible if the interest was fixed by law. Mr. Livingston,
of New York, said there was a probability, if the rate was not fixed, that we should have to pay a much higher
mte. He believed moneyed men might so combine as to extort 10 or even 20 per cent. for money.
On the other hand it was said that it was impossible to tell what sums might be wanted for the public service;
that the President and Secretary coulcl safely be trusted to b~rrow no more money th3(n was needed, and at a rate
11

22 W D T

.A.dmi.nistrations of Washington and Adams, by' George Gibbs,.vol. ii, pp. 50, 51.

338

VALUATION, TAXArrION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

higher than the market price; that the country might be sudden~y invaded, and it mi~'ht be impossible to obtain
money if the rate was fixed; and that ,it was necessary to consult, m some degree, the mterests of moneyetl men.
The bill was amended so as to make the loan redeemable_infifteen y~a:s? but the amount to be borrowed and th6
rate were not limited.* In this shape it passed the House, without a thv1s10n, bnt the Senate subsequently amended.
it by limiting the amount to be borrowed to $5,000,000. It was finally passed by both houses, and was ::ipproved.
States to borrow, on such temrn as
J Ul~, 16 ' 1.I""98 (1 Statutes ' 607). The bill authorized the President of the United
'
• th e appropria
• t'10us aml t o
" d
ed most advantageous $5 000 000, to be appliecl to make up any de fi mency
m
11e eem
' ' '
U . l St t
.
.
.
. .
defray the expenses which might be incurred by calling out the militia of the mtec
a es or m rmsmg·, ~qmppmg,
antl calling out regular troops or volunteers. The loan was to be reimbursable at the pleasm:e of the Umted States
after fifteen years, and the surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage was. pledge~l for its repa.yme.nt .. Under
this act $5,000,000 was raisetl by subscription, and an equal amount ~f st?ck issuecl f?r the same, bearmg mt(lrcst
at s per cent. per annum until December 31, 1808, and thereafter at like mterest~ durmg the plertsure of Oo~1gross,
until redeemed. The market rate at the time was 8 per cent. per annum, and it wn,s thonght by a comunttee of
Congress that the loan was negotiated "upon the best terms that could be procured, and with a laudu.bfo eyo to
the pnblic interest".t
·
·
.A curious circumstance took place in connection with this loan, being, it is believed, the only case in all the
financial history of the government of a successful attempt at a fraudulent issue of United States Atock. 'l'he
subscriptions to this loan were receiveu in cash at the different loan offices, the Bank of the United States, and the
treasury and scrip certificates issued for the money, which certificates were afterward surrendered at tho treasury,
and 8 pe~ cent. stock issued therefor. .After all the scrip certificates had been funded in this way, it was discovered,
in the vear 1805 that although only $5,000,000 in cash had been received, yet stock to tlle arnonni; of $5,001,000 had
,,
'
been issued, being an overissue of $1,000. .After a long investigation it seemed to be conclusively proved thu,t tt
certain Charles Tompkins, who had been a clerk in the register's office :f):oni 1700 to 1802, a.nd who had chargo
of the issue of the 8 per cent. stock, had fraudulently taken ten scrip certificates for $100 each from their phi.co
in the files of the register's office; had altered the abstract of certificates filed so as to conceal the theft; aud then,
presenting the certificates at the office in his own name, as agent for Clement Biddle, [li banker of very high stlmding
in Philat.lelphia, hacl obtained au order for tlle issue of the stock; had himself issned it under tllc order; nntl had
obtained from l\fr. Bidule $1,000, and 8uG as premium. It was suggestecl by Joseph Nourse, the register, that
Tompkins be arrested, but this was not done at the time, perhaps because the evidence, though conclusive to tw
accountant, hardly amounted to legal proof'. The United States redeemed the $1,000 of fraudulently issued stoek
as it did its genuine issues, and for a time the matter was at"rest.
In September, 1811, however, a new and more alarming feature of the case was developed. A certificate f<t .
$15,000 United States deferred 6 per cents, bearing the genuine signature of Joseph Nourse, register of tho
trea:mry, but of which tlle :filling np and marks of issue hacl evidently been forged, was fomvnrded to the treasury
b,y .Archibald Gracie & Sons, of New York. This was speedily followed by the inform11tiou that another for $30,000,
also forged, was in the possession of David. Parish, of Philadelphia, who had. imrchasecl it in Lorit.lou. '!'hose
certificates had both been sold in London by James Tompkins, a son of Charles Tompkins. On examination of tho
books at the treasury, it was found that out of a book of blank deferred 6 per cents, which llad been kept u.t the
treasury and had been in Oliarles Tompkins' care,. ten signed certificates were missing. It appears to have been iillo
custom of the register to sign the certificates of stock in blank, in quantities, and leave them in the cha,rgo of the
confidential clerk till wanted for issue. Information was soon received that James Tompkins had a coadjutor in the
fraud by the name of Thomas Joy, i:tlias Harrison." It was also ascertained that both James Tompkins and Joy 11ttcl
sailed from Liverpool for the United States, and might be expected early in November. There was an immediate
and determined effort made to capture them. on their arrival, before they could set foot· ou shore. It turned out
a~terwarcl that Joy and Tompkins were on the way over in the ship Justina, which James Tompkins had purchased
with part of the proceeds of the forged certificates, and had placed Joy in command. Ou the 9th of November the
Justina came intoNewYork harbor, under the guns of the Wasp, and Tompkins and Joy were immediately arrested.
Joy, on being examined, denielleverything, but Tompkins made a full confession. He said that he had received tho
ten blanks, ~ignec\by the register of the treasury, from. his father, Charles Tompkins; hacl himself filled up two of
them, oi;e with $!0,000 ~nd the other with $30,000; and had destroyed the rest, except one which he still retainecl.
He aclnutted havmg sol~ the forged certificates in London, receiving therefor £7,508 7s. 6il. sterling; hacl expenclod
about £4,000 on the J ustma; had loaned £3,000 in Liverpool on real estate security· had sent £300 to his mother and
expended a small amount in different ways. The father, Charles Tompkins, was 'now arrested and the throe 'were
fully com~ttecl. Th.e trial of the Tompkins', father and son, for forgery, came off in May, 1s12. James Tompkins
:vas convJCted, but his father was acquitted, in fact could not be convicted, of forgery, as he had not committe(l
it. Ile seems to have been careful through the whole tr;msaction to do but little that might bring him within the
t,rrasp of the l~w, The case of young Tompkins seems to have excited some commiseration. He was pardoned in
the course of a few months, ancl Joy was set at liberty, Mr. Dallas, who managed the cases for the government,
110

".A.nnnls of 5th Cong:i;ess, vol. ii, p. 20371 et seq. ·

· t American State Papers, ii Fi,nance," vol. i 1 p. 692.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.
advising the Secretary of the Treasury that it was hardly worth while to prosecute the accessory after one principal
had been acquitted and the other pardoned. The documents in connection with the case do not show what arrangement was made between those who had sn:fferecl by the fraud. The United States seem to have recovered nothing.
Archibald Gracie & Sons, for whom the $15,000 certificate had been purchased at about £2,500, got possession of the
Justina, which had cost £4,000, while David Parish, who h~d paid for the $30,000 certifim1te over £5,000, got only
the £3,000 mortgage. ·whether an equitable settlement was afterward made does not appear.
EIGHT PER CENT. LOAN OF 1800.
The committee of ways and means of t.he House of Representatives reported, February 28, 1800, that the
expenditure for the coming year was estimated at the sum of $13,793,034 11, while tlle estimated re\Tenue would be
hut $9,301,258 51, and there wcmld therefore be an apparent deficit of $4,4!H,775 60 to be provided for; but as it
was probable that when the payments for the year 1799 we110 all made and the accounts settled, there would be a.
balance in the treasury of at least $1,000,000, the real deficit to be provided for was, in round numbers; $3,500,000,
aml it was therefore recommended that the President be authorized to borrow, for the service of the year, a sum not
exceeding $3,500,000. This deficit in the revenues was caused by the extensiye preparations for war with France,
during the years 1798 and 1799, in which the United States, possessing at the time neither army nor navy, hacl beeu
obliged to provide both, to meet a threatened invasion.
The bill to authorize the President to borrow $3,500,000 for the im1'1.ic service passed the House JYiarch 18 and
the Senate .A.pril 30, and was tipproyed May 7, 1800 (2 "statutes, 00). An nnsnccessfnl attempt was made in the
Senate to limit the interest to 0 per cent. and to make the loan reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States
after eight years. The act ,provided that the money should be borrowed to make up. any deficiency in tlle
appropriations, and to defray the expenses of calling into service any part of the militia of tlle United States or of
mising and equipping regulars or vohtnteers. The loan was to be reimbursable after fifteen years, the rate of
interest not being fixed.
Under this act, stock, bearing interest at 8 pei· cent. per annum, was issued to the amount of $1,481,700, for
which cash was received to the amount of $1,505,229 24, being a premium of $83,529 24, or neflrly ult per cei1t.
I10UISIANA SIX PER CENT. STOCK.
This loan was contracted to pay France for the province of Louisiana, ceded to the United States by that
power April 30, 1803. According to the construction of the United States, the cession of' France included all the
territor.v now coveretl by those portions of the states of Ahtbarna and Mississippi which lie south of the thirty.first
parallel; by the states of Louisiana, Arkansas, l\iissom:i, Iowa, Minnesota, Oregon, Nebraska, and Kansas; by the
territories of Du,kota, J\fontaua, Idaho, Washing ton, and the Indian territory ; i1nd by portions of Oolorado and
Wyoming. The Unitecl States had heavy demands on France for spoliations c<;munittecl on American commerce
dming the previous ten years. The amount of these claims was estimated at $5,000,000. The flrs.t proposition of
t.he French minister was that the Unite<~ Sttites should pay, for the province of Louisimm, 100,000,000 francs and
take upon themselyes the ptiymont of the claims for spoliations, but the amount was finally fixed at $15,000,ooo, of
which France was to receive $11,250,000 in United States bonds, payable in iifteen years, and bearing interest at
the rate of 0 per cent. The remainder, amonnting to $3,750,000, was to be devoted to reimbursing American citizens
for French <lepredations ou their commerce. The trmity was confirmed by the Senate of the United States, but was
the occasion of an extended deb~ite in the Rouse of Representatives.
The act to issue the stock in payment for the territory, which became known as the Louisiana 8tock, was
approved November 10, 1803 (2 Statutes, 245). It provided that, for the purpose of carrying into effect the
convention of April 30, 1803, the Secretary of the Treasury shouJcl issue, in favor of the French republic or its
assignees, certificates of stock for the sum of $11,250,000, bearing an interest of six per cent. per annum from the
time at which possession of Louisiana might be obtained in conformity with the treaty, the certificates to be delivered
by the President to the government of' France, or to such r)ersons as should be authorized to receive them, within
three mouths after Louisiana should be taken possession of in the name of' the government of the United States.
The faith of the United States was pledged for the payment of the interest ancl the reimbursement of the
principal in conformity with the provisions of the convention with France. The convention providecl that the
interest ~hould be payable half-yearly, in London, Amsterdam, or Paris, and that the stock should be.reimbursed
in annual payments of not less than three millions each 1 the first payment to commence fifteen years after the elate
of the exchange of ratifications. The act, however, provided that the Secretary of the Treasury might consent
to discharge the stock in. four equal annual installments, and also to shorten the time fixed by the conven~ion for
commencing reimbursement. The annual interest, payable in Europe, was to be paid at the rate of four sllillings
and sixpence sterling for each dollar payable in Lonclon, and of two and a half guilders for each dollar pa.yable in
.Amsterdam. Sufficient money to pay the interest for the first year was appropriated by the act. An annual
sum of $700,000 (in addition to the annuai sinking fund of $7,300,000), payable out of t~e duties on .merc~anclise
anc! tonnage, was appropriated, to continue so appropriated until the whole debt of the Umted States, mcludmg the
stock created by the aet, was paid.

340

VALUATION, TAXATIO~, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

Under this act stock for the portion of tile purchase-money due France, amounting to $11,250,000, was issued.
Its redemption began in 1812, and was completed in 1823, ev~ry dollar being :!?aid. For ~he. portion reserved to
pay American citizens for spoliation ($3,750,000), no stock was issued, but the claims were paid m money, except the
sum of $11, 731 02 carried to the surplus fuml J uue 30, 1868.
EXCHANGED AND CONVERTED SIX PER CENT. STOCKS OE' 1807.
It appeared by the report of Albert Gallatin, Secretary of the Treasury, Jn,nuary 20, 1806, that ther? romained
outstanding: of the old 6 per cent. and deferred stocks about $31,800,000, and of the 3 per cents (nommal value)
about $19,050,000-total, $50,850,000. Of these stocks the G per cent. and defen:ed were redeemable _at the rate ot
2 per cent. per annum, each holder receiving, on e:ery $100 worth of stock, $6 for.mterest ~n:l $2 as ~ennbur~ement.
This mode of payment hatl in effect, tliougll not m terms, converted the stocks mto annuities, ter1mnable in from
twelve to eighteen years later. Under this arrangement these stocks sold in England, where a very large proportion
-of them was held, at about 95 per cent. on the unredeemed amount of each certificate, while tho 3 per cents, which
were not redeemable at any specific time, were worth in market about GO per cent. of their nomiual value.
J\Ir. GqJlatin proposed that, in exchange for these three stocks, a common 6 per cent. stock should be offered to
the public creditors; the old G pe1• cent. and deferred stocks to be received at the par value of the unredeemed
amount, and the 3 per cents at about 60 per cent.
.
.
. .
J\Ir. Gallatin thought the exchange woulcl be advantageous to the crechtors, because, 1st, mstead of rece1vmg,
.as they did, quarter-yearly, a small reimbursement of their capital, which was in effect a long n,nnuity, they would,
if tlley exchanged their stocks, receive the whole amount within a much shorter time; and, 2d, because an annuity
for a term of years is always worth .less in market than its intrinsic or arithmetical value, as exemplifiecl by the
market rate of every lease and every estate less than the absolute fee. For this reason the navy 6 })er cents, which
were redeemable at the pleasure of the United States, had always sold higher in market than the 6 per cent. and
.deferred stocks. He thought the exchange would also be advantageous to the United States, 1st, because the
government would thereby be enabled to reimburse the whole in less than nine ;years, instea,d of eighteen; and,
"2d, because if circumstances should render a resort to new loans necessary, the. terms on 'vhich these could be
-0btained would, in a considerable clegree, depend. on the price of existing stocks. It was therefore desirable that
.that species, the price of which had a tendency to regulate that of all others, should. be as valuable as circumstances
would atlmit, and, as has been stated, the 6 per cent. and deferred stocl~s, being annuities for a term of years, solcl
at less than their intrinsic value, the effect of which had already been felt in the operations connectetl. with the
purchase of Louisiana. A con1ersion of the 3 per cent. stocks, however, could not be so easily effected, they being
worth more in market than a 6 per cent. stock producing the same annual amount, and it would therefore be
:necessary for the United States in converting this stock to make some sacrifices.*
On the 20th of December, 1806, John Randolph, from the committee of ways and means of the House of
nepresentatives, presented a bill for the exchange and. conversion of the stocks, entitled "An act supplementary
to the act entitled an act making provision for the redemption of the whole of the public clebt of the United States".
()n tlie 15th of .January, 1807, the House resolved itself into a committee of the whole on the bill. The only part
of it on which a division was called was on filling the blank in the third section so as Ul entitle the holders of' tho 3
per cent. stock to an amount of the 6 per cent. stock equal to "65" per cent. of the nominal amount tlley held. On
this tho vote was yeas 52, nays 27. The bill was read the third time .January 16, ttncl was opposed by Mr. Alston,
who said he knew of no advantages that would accrue to the United States from the passage of the bill. vVero
the United States to be benefited by this modification of the present debt, or were they in the least interested in it~
It was clear they were not interested in it, for if they were the keen speculator would not come forward to subscribe.
~his was a measure giving to people who 'had already preyed on the interests of the country another advantage.
It held out a strong inducement to all citizens of the United States or of foreign countries who held 3 per cent.
stock to subscribe to the new loan, by giving them 9 per cent. more than the value of their stocks twelve or fifteen
months ago. He had evidence that at that period not more than 56 per cent. could have been obtained for it and
yet the bill proposed to give them 65.
·
'
:Mr. Randolph, who favored the bill, said that nothing seemed plainer than that where two individuals stood
in the relation of debtor and creditor, new arrangements of existing debts might be made to the advantage.of both.
At present the commissioners of the sinking fund were authorized to purchase the old G per cent. ancl deferred
stock at $100 in specie for every $100 of stock, and those stocks were every year partially retired at this ·rate. The
only good, therefore, that the provisions of the bill would do the holders of these stocks would be that the government would pay them at the same rate they were now paying them and at which purchases were now made. As
for
3 per cents, Mr. Randolph said he would use a comparison that would. come home to the simplest l1nder·
standmg. A farmer owes his neighbor a thousand tlollars, for which he has given his bond bearing an interest at
3 per cent. He has the option of paying it off for $650. Would any pr.ovident man h~sitate to discharge the

th:

*American State Papers, "Finance," vol. ii, p. 213.

341

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

thousand dollars by paying $650, instead of suffering it to remain as a burden on his children or a lien on his
estate' Would it not be most to the aclvantage of the people of the United States to pay off this stock at the rate
of 05 per cent. rather than to let it remain as a perpetual incumbrance on the nation l* The bill passed the House
at the close of the debate by yeas 112, nays 13. It passed the Senate February 7, without amendment i+ncl
apparently without debate, and was approved Februaryll, 1807 (2 Statutes, 415). It provided that a subscriptioll!
should be 011enecl in the United States and at London and .Amsterdam to the full amount of the old 6 per cent.,.
deferred, and 3 per cent. stocks. For any amount subscribed, in the old sixes or deferred stocks, a new G per cent~
stock was to be issued for the par value o:f the unredeemed amount of each certificate. The interest on the new stock
was to be payable quarterly, and it was to be subject to redemption at the pleasure of the United States. No lmrtia1
reimbursement was to be made on any certificate, and six months' public notice was to be given of any intencled
reimbursement. On all subscriptions in 3 per cent. stock, certificates equal to 65 per cent. of the principal of the
stock subscribed were to be issued, bearing an interest of' 6 per cent., payable quarterly, but. not reimbursable
without the assent of the holder until after the whole of the 8 per cent. and 42- per cent. stocks, as well as the stock
to be issued by virtue of the act in exchange for the old 6 per cent. and deferred stocks, had been redeemed.
It will be observed th11t the act created two kinds of stocks, one reimbursable at the pleasure of the United
Sta,tes, tlle other not without the assent of the holder until after an indefinite period. To distinguish these stocks
the :first was called the" exchanged", the other the" converted'' 6 per cents. For these names, however, no authority
appears in the act. "Exchanged" 6's were issued amounting to $6,204,05112, and of the" converted" $1,859,850 70.
It would appear that the great majority of' the-holders of the old stocks preferred them to the new.
LO.AN OF 1810.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his report on the finances, elated December 7, 1809, estimated that about
twelve ancl a half millions of dollars woulcl be available for the expenses of the government during the year 1810.
He estimated those expenses as follows : t
For the civil list and foreign intercourse...... . . . • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • . • . • • . • . • • • • . $1, 500, 000
For annual appropriations for the public debt, of which about $3,750,000 would be requfrcd for the final
reimbursement of tlie exchanged 6 per cent. stock •••••........•••..... - . . . • • • • • • . . .. • • .. • • • .. . . ..
For the expenses of the military ancl naval estol1lishments... .. .. . . .. . . .. . . .. .. .•.. .... .... .... .... .. •.

8, 000 000
3, 000, 000

Making a total of ................................................ ---- ............. :........... 12, 500, 000

==

lf the expenditures for military and naval pmposes could not be reduced, a loan would be necessary to make
up tlrn deficiency. The Secretary stated that he had anticipated this state of things, ancl in his previous annual
report, December 10, 1808, had advised an increase of duties. This measure Congress had not thought proper to
adopt, ancl it was now too late, as the increasecl revenue arising from an increase fa the duties on imports (if made)
would hardly become available llnring the coming year. He stated that if the actual expenditures for military and
naval purposes during the year 1810 equaled those of the year 1809, there would be a deficiency of $3,000,000. He
therefore asked Congress to authorize a loan of $4,000,000, which he estimated would ·cover all expenditures and
leav(l $1,000,000 in the treasury.
It seems to have been thonght in Congress that it was impossible to effect any .important reductions in the
expenditures for the army and navy. Our foreign relations were in a very unsatisfactory state, and the war iu
which we soon after became engaged with Great Britain was already looming in the clistunce. In the discussions
which took place on antho:dzing the loan asked for by the Secretary, every gentleman who spoke assented to the
propriety of placing at the disposal of the government a sum of money fully adequate to meet the estimated
expenditures for the year. All those who spoke against the bill profess~cl to be willing, in a proper manner, to
authorize a loan of' any sum of money necessary to sustain the honor ~f the country, but they contended that the
bill was objectionable because the sum to be raised was not stated on the face of the bill; because tho bill bore a.
deceptive appearance of borrowing money to pay the public debt, when, in fact, it was to meet the ordinary expenses
of the government; because the bill authorized a loan of $5,160,000, being $1,160,000 more than the Secretary of the
Treasury had declared to be necessary; and because no loan ought to be authorized until bills then before the
House, which might effect a reduction in the annual expenditures, were decided on. In reply to these objections it
was urged that the amount autJ.iorizecl to be borrowed was as definitely expressed as though in figures; that there
could be no deception on the face of the bill, for if no debt heretofore contracted was to be paid off, there woulcl not
only be no occasion to borrow, but there woulcl be a large surplus iu the treasury; and that since the estimates
hacl been reported to the House various additional appropriations had been made, and it was impossible to say how
much money might be wanted, but no more would be borrowed than was actually required.
The bill to authorize the loan passecl the·House .April 25, yeas 77, nays 35, and it was ordered that the title be:
"A.n act authorizing a loan of money for a sum not exceeding the amount of' the principal of the public debt
reimbursable during the year 1810.":j: It became a law May 1, 1810 (2 Statutes, 610).
•.A.nnaJs of 9th Cong., 2d sess., p. 331. t American State Papers, "ll'ina.nce," vol ii, p. 374. tAnnals of 11th Cong., 2d sess., pp. 1947-1957.

342

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUJ3LIO INDEBTEDNESS.

.
The act provided that tile President of the United States be authorized to borrow, on the credit of the United
States a sum not exceeding the amount of the public debt which would be reimbursed by law during the year 1810.
Tlic futerest was not to exceed 6 per cent., and the loan was to be reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States,
or l:llt such period as might be stipulated by contract, not exceeding six years from January 1, 1.811. The Bank of
the United States was to be allowed to Lend the whole or any part of the sum required, and the Secretary of the
Treasury was to be permitted to raise the money by selling certificates of stock, not under par. The Secretary was
authorized 1 with the approbation of the President, to give the preference, in the subscriptions to be made to the loan
under this act, to the holders of the exchanged 6 per cent. stock createcl by virtue of' the second section of the act
passed February 11, 1807, for an amount not exceeding for each stockholder the amount of the exchanged stock
held by him at the time of subscribing. The sum thus borrowed from the holders of the exchanged stock was to
be reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States. So much of the sinking fund of $8,000,000 as might be
needed for the purpose was pledged for the payment of the interest and the reimbursement of the principal, and
the faith of the United States was pledged to establish sufficient revenues to make up any deficiency in the fund.
Under this bill $2,750,000 was borrowed, reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States, 11nd it wa1:1 all l'eimbursed
during the year 1811.
SIX PER CENT. LOAN OF 1812.
The committee of ways and means of the Rouse of Representatives reported, February 17, 18121 that the
ordinary expenditures for the coming year were estimated at $9,400 1000, while the receipts for the year were
estimated at $8,200,000, leaving a deficit of $1,200,000, which, however, might be paid out oft.he balance remaining
in the treasurjr January 1, 1812, amounting to $3,502,305 80. This would leave a balance of about $2,302,305 80 on
band, which the committee thought it would not be prudent, under existing circumstances, further to exhaust.
'.But it was probable that more than the ordinary expenses for the year would have to be met. It was evident that
war with Great Britain must soon ensue; it was, in fact, declared within four months. Bills had been introduced
into Congress, and several of them had passed, to increase the regular army 25,000 men; to arm and drill the militia;
to purchase ordnance, ordnance stores, and camp equipage; to raise a force of mounted rangers;. to repair the rntvy
and purchase timber to build new ships; to erect additional fortifications; and to call for volunteers. The bills
which had passed or were likely to pass Congress to put the country in readiness for war called for an extraordinary
expenditure of abo11t $11,000,000, and this sum the committee proposed to raise by loan, ancl reported a bill for that
purpose. The bill was considered in the committee of the whole February 24, and seems to have caused but little
debate, passing to its third reading by yeas 92, nays 2(). It was slightly amended in tho Senato, but seems to
have passed that body without much debate. The Rouse concurred in the amendme.nts, ancl the bill passccl ilnally
March 11, and was approved March 14, 1812 (2 Statutes, 694). It authorized the President to borrow, on the
credit of' the United States, $11,000,000, at a rate of interest not exceeding 6 per cent., payn,ble quarter-yearly, the
monej' to be reimbursable, at the pleasure of the United States, at any time after the expiration of twelve years
from January 1, 1813.
Certificates of stock for the sums borrowe<l were to be issued, reimbursable as aforesaid, but no such certificates
were to be sold below par.
By a supplemental act, approved July 6, 1812 (2 Statutes, 784), the Secretary of the Tl·easury was authorized
to employ an agent or agents, for the purpose of' selling any part of this stock, and to allow such agent or agents a
commission on the amount sold not exceeding one-eighth of 1 per cent.
Under these acts the sum of' $1:\,134,700 was obtained, reimbursaJ:>le as provided for in the act, and 11lso a
temporary loan for $2,150,000, reimbursable as providecl for in special contracts with different banks. These loans
have been entirely repaid.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1812.
It will be seen, by the remarks on the preceding loan, that the committee of ways and means of the House
of Representatives ~ad estimated the ordinary and extraordinary expenses of the year at $20,400,000, wllich
would. leave a defimt of about $11,000,000; that an act was passed to ra1se this amount by a loan· and tlrn.t
the sum. ~f' $10,284,700 was actually obtained. The Secretary of the Treasury, however, reported to tb.o ~ommittee,
May 14, 1812, that up to that elate but $6,118,900 had. been subscribed, and that while he was confident tlle whole
amount would be filled as early as the money would be wanted for the public use, yet he thought it advisable to
prev~nt the possibility of disappointment, tllat authority should be given to issue treasury notes for such n.mo~mt
:18 might no.t be actually subscribecl to the loan.* .A. bill to authorize the issue of treasury notes was accordi11gly
mtroduced m the Rouse June 12, read twice, and referred to the committee of the whole on the 13th. It wn,s
~po~ed at some length by Messrs. Randolph, T~llmaclge, and Ke~, and supported. by MessPs. Cheves, Nelson,
cKi.m, ~n~ others. Mr;_ Randolph moved to strike out the enactmg clause, but his motion was negatived by a
~~ge maJonty, and the bill ordered to a third reading.
"American State Papers, "l!'inance1" vol. ii1 p. 564..

HISTORY OF THE NATION.AL LOANS.

343

It was the first time since the. formation of the present government that the issue of treasury notes bad beer:
proposed, and they were opposed for this reason, as engrafting on our system of finances a new and untried measure.
Tlrn bill passed the House June 17, by yeas 85, nays 41; passed the Senate June 26; and was approved June
30, 1812 (2 Statutes, 766). rt· authorized the President to issue treasury notes for such sums as he should deem
expedient, but not exceeding in all $5,000,000. These notes were to be reimbursed by the United States at srich
places, respectively, as. might be expressed on the. face of the notes, one year, respectively, after the day on which
the notes were issued. They were fo bear.interest from the day of issue, at the rate of 5f per cent. a year, payable
at the plac~s and _times respectively designated on the face of said notes for the payment of the principal. They
were to be issneLl m such portions as the President should deem expedient, in payment for supplies and for debts
due by the UniteLl States, to such public creditors as cllose to receive them at par; and the Secretary of the Treasuzy
was authorized to borrow from time to time, not under par, such sums as the President should deem expedient, on
the credit of the notes. They were to be receivable in pa;yment of all duties and taxes laicl by authority of th0
United States and for all public lands. In such payments interest was to be computed at the rate of 12- cent a day
on each $100 in treasnry notes, and each month was to be counted at thirty days.
The commissioners of the sinking fund w13re authorized and directed to cause to be reimbursM and paid the
principal and interest of the notes, at the severa1 times when they sllonld become reimbursable by the provisions
of the act, Rind were further authorized to purchase said notes, not above par, in the sam<i manner as they
pnrc11::1set1 other evidences of the public debt.
There was issued in these notes tlle full amoimt of $5,000,000 which the act authorized.

EXCHANGED SIX PER OENT. STOOK OF 1812.
The Secretary of the Treasury reported to the House of Representatives, June 24, 1812, through the committee
of ways and mealls, that of the loan of $11,000,000, authorized by the act of March 14, 1812, but $6,460,000 had
thus far been subscribed, including $200,000 offered on special contract but not yet accepted. He said: "The
result of the loan was more than doubtful. The old 6 per cent. and deferrecl stocks are 2 or 3 per cent. under
par, and any depression in the public funds would seriously affect the sales of the residue of tlle new loan. Nor
does it appear eligible, without an absolute necessity, to give a premium or additional interest in order to obtain
subscriptions for that residue. For as it would be just in that case to place the first subscribers on the same
footing·, the charge to the public would be more than double the premium actually wanted to obtain the four and
a half millions which are not yet subscribed." He therefore suggested a conversion of the old 6 per cent. and
deferred stocks into a new 6 per cent. stock not materially different from that created by virtue of the act author·
faing the loan of $11,000,000. This he thought would have a favora,ble effect on the price of those stocks, and
thereby facilitate the loan of this year aml prevent the necessity of applying, in this and subsequent years, the
large sums which must otherwise be expended in the reimbursement and purchase of the public debt.*
A bill fo:r· the purpose of e:tfocting a conversion of the old 6 per cent. and deferred stocks, as recommended by Mr.
Gallatin, was considered in committee of the whole July 3, 1812, and was reported witllout amendment. Hon. John
Randolph moved to amend it by striking out the enacting clause, which motion was rejected by a large majority.
Mr. Handolph then moved to amend it by inserting bi proYiso that nothing contained in it should be constrlied to
impair the obligation by which the commissioners of the sinking funcl were bound, under previous acts of Congress,
to apply $8,000,000 annually to the recluction of the public debt. This motion was also rejected. The bill was
. then ordered to be engrossed, and read the third time the same day. It i)assed, apparently without further debate,
by yeas 58, nays 26. It passed tlle Senate without amendment, and was approved July 6, 1812 (2 Statutes, 783).
The act provided that a subscription to the full ·amount of the old 6 per cent. and deferred stocks be proposed
to the proprietors thereof, for which purpose books should be 01)ened, at the treasury ancl the offices of the
commissioners of loans, on the 1st day of October next ensuing, to C'ontfnue open until March 17, 1813, the fourteen
last days of each q narter excepted. Fo; such part of the amount of the old 6 per cent. and deferred stocks subscribed
and surrendered as should remain unredeemed on the day of subscription, the subscribers were to be entitlecl to
receive certificates of United States stocks, bearing interest at 6 per cent. per annum, payable quarter-yearly, from
the first day of the quarter in which the subscription was made. The said certificates were to be reimbursable, at the
pleasure of the United States, n,t any time after December 31, 1824; but no reimbursement was to be made except
for the w'hole amount of stock standing at the time to tlle credit of any proprietor, nor until after at least six
months' public notice of the intended reimbursement. Nothing in the act was to be construed to alter, abridge: or
impair the riO'bts of those creditors of the United States who did not subscribe for the exchanged stock. Under
this act $2,9S4,746 72 were subscribed in old 6 per cent. and deferred stocks and exchanged for certificates of tho
new stock. This stock has all been redeemed.
,.,. American State Papers, vol. ii, "Finance," p. 569.

344

VALUATION, TAXA'I1ION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.
SIXTEEN MILLION LOAN OF 1813.

The committee of ways and means, January 18, 1813, reported a bill authorizing the issuing. of t~easury notes
for the service of the year 1813; also a bill authorizing a loan of - - millions of uollar~; which bills were reatl
twice ancl referred to a committee of the whole. It appeared from the report of the committee of wa;ys f1ll(l means
that tho expenditures for the year 1813 might be estimated at the sum of $36,000,000. Of t~is sum about. $26,000,00()
would lie required for military and naval operations, which were necessarily heavy, the Umted States bemg eug~ged
in war with Great Britain. The balance remaining in the treasury December 31, 1812, bad not been ui;;certamed
with accuracy but was believed to amount to about $3,000,000, after deducting expenses incurred in 1812, lmt not
yet paid.* .A.~ltl to this balance the revenue for the year 1813, which was estimated at $14,000,0~0, inclntling. tlie.
amounts receivable during the year from the loan and treasury notes of 1812, and there rernamed 11 deficit of
li!H>,000,000. To meet this the committee proposed the issue of treasury: notes to the .amount of $5,000,000 and a
new loan of $1G,OOO,OOO. This, it was estimated, would leave a surplus of $2,000,000 m the treasury at the end of
the year. The bill for raising the loan was energetically opposed, on the ground that iii contained no tipecial
provisions, an.cl set apart no special fund for its reimbursement; that. the war, for which great expenses were to be
incurred, should never have been declared, and now, that the principal reason for its commencement had been
removed by events in Europe, its further prosecution was unnecessary. The blank in the bill was filled so as to
make the amount to be raised ''sixteen" millions. Some debate occlU'red on the proposition to limit the rate of
interest to 6 per cent. and to prevent any stock being sohl below par.
The House refused to fix the rate of interest or to limit the sales of the stock to par, and passed the bill by a
decisive majority January 27. The Senate r>assed it without amendment, and it was approved February 8, 1813
(2 Statutes, 'i!lS). It authorizecl the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States, a sum not exceeding
$16,000,000, no contract for the same to be entered into which should preclude the United States from reimbursing
it at any time after January 1, 1826.
The President was authorized to sell the certificates of stock issued, at a price not limited to par, and to employ
agents for the purpose of effecting the sales, said agents to receive a compensation not exceeding one-fourth of l
per cent. on the amount they sold or for which they obtained subscriptions. The surplus of the sinking fnU(l was
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest, and the commissioners of that fond were authqrizecl to
purchase the principal of the stock to be issued, at any time, on the same terms as they were authorized to purchase
other evidences of the public debt. The faith of the United. States was.pledged to establish suflicieut :revmm<>s to
make np any deficiency. Under this bill $15,468,800 was obtained on subscriptions and sales of $100 iu stock for
$88 iu money, and $531,200 at par, by giving an annuity of
per cent. for thirteen years in addition. .As the bill
contains no provision for offering annuities in addition to the interest, it must have been clone under the nnlimitel\
authority given by the bill to raise money without restricting the means. For the money so obtained, certiilcates
of stock for $18,109,377 43 were issued, bearing interest at 6 per cent.
'

lz

TREASURY NOTES OF 1813.
The circumstances that rendered necessary the issue of the treasury notes of 1813 (foquired to make up the
expected deficit of $1!l,OOO,OOO), in addition to the 6 per cent. $16,000,000 loan of that year, have been n,Jreacly
referred to.
A bill proposing a new issue of treasury notes was reported to the House of Representatives January 27 i813.
The opposition offered various reasons against its passage, among which were that issuing treasury uotds was
creating a new system of patronage and favoritism, already too great, and therefore it would be bette~· to acld the
snm contemplated to the $16,000,000 loan, or to create another 6 per cent. stock for the occasion; also that, as the
uot~s were to bear but G per cent. interest, they would have to be negotiated in such a way as to give tlle hanks
takrng them some other advantages, as it was not pretended that money. could be got for 6 per cent.; if' so,
wby ~ot _have limited the sales under th~ loan bill to par~ The banks which had been made government
depositories would take up these notes m sums equal to the average balance of government fonds in their
vaults. They would hold the notes aucl the average balance, and at the end of the year pay the government in
treasury notes, thus forcing the government to pay interest on its own fonds. To this it was answered that whether
~he ~noney was raised by a loan or by issue of treasury notes the effect would be the same. The money woukl
m either case be deposited in those banks which were by law government depositories and the banks would
?raw incidental benefits from it. Ev~n the receipts from lands, customs, and internal ta:x:.e~ would all be deposited
m _th~ bank~, .and :hey would discount on those deposits. The notes which it was proposed to issue were not so
?bJect10nable m th1s respect ~s a loan, f~r they would not be issued until the exigencies of the government requirec.l
it. The Hot~s? passed ~h~ bill by yeas 1!), nays 41. An attempt was made in the Senate to amend it, by striking
out.the pro~isid'iis permittmg ~he notes to be u~e~ in payment for supplies ancl to be received in payment of duties
on imports, but the Senate rejected the propos1twn and passed the bill with some unimportant verbal amendments

-

*Annals of 12th Cong., 2d seas., p. 870.

'

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

345

in which the House concurred.* It was aprirove(l February 25, 1813 (2 Statutes, 801). It authorized the President
to cause to be issued treasury notes, for such sums as he should deem expedient, not exceeding in amount $5,000,000.
It also authorized the issue of the further sum of not exceeding $5,000,000, the proceeds of whfoh were to be deemed
and held to be pal't of the sum of $16,000,000 authorize(l to be borrowed by the act of February 8, 1813. (This
rJrovision was rendered of no effect by the fact that nearly the whole of the sixteen millions was obtained as a loan.)
The notes were to be reimbursed, at such places, respectively, as might be expressed on the face of the notes, one
year after the date of their issue, and were to bear au interest of 5t per cent. per annum, payable at the same times
and places as the principal should be reimbursable. They were to be issued in payment for supplies to such public
creditors as chose to receive them, and were receivable everywhere in the payment of au ·duties and taxes laid by
the United States; also for all public lands sold.
The Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to borrow, on the credit of the notes, not under par, such sums
as the President might deem advisable, and it was to be deemed a good execution of this provision to pay the
notes to such banks as would receive them at par and give credit to the treasurer of the United States for the
amount thereof. The notes were to be transferable by delivery and assignment indorsed thereon by the person to
whose order the same should, on the face, have been made payable. The commissioners of the sinking fnnd were
directed to reimburse and. pay the principal and interest of the notes at the time they shoulcl become payable, and
were furthermore authorized to purchase said notes, in the same manner as other evidences of the public debt were
purchased, at a price not above the par of principal and interest due. Notes were issued under this act to the
amount of $5,000,000.
·
SEVEN AND ONE-HALF MILLION LOAN.
The acts authorizing a loan of $16,000,000 and an issue of treasury notes for $5,000,000, in the early part of the
year 1813, were intendecl to provide ample means to meet the deficit of $19,000,000, which was expected to result
from the heavy military and naval operations of.the year. ';rhe acting Secretary of the Treasury, W. Jones, in his
report to the Senate, June 3, 1813, estimated the expenditures for the remainder of the year at about $29,230,000,
and the revenue from all somces, inclucli'.ng the loans and treasury notes authorized, at the same amouut. But he
seems to lrnve feared that so large an issue of treasury notes might result in their flepreciation, and he advised a
loan instead, reserving the power to issue treasury notes if the exigencies of the government req_uirecl it. He
says that, in the estimate of resources, "the whole sum of $5,000,000 authorized to be issued in treasury notes is
taken as a part of the resources of the llresent year. But as it is not deemed eligible to increase the amount of
treasury notes in circulation, and as three millions only of those authorized by the act of 1812 were issued in that
year, and are reimbursable in the course of the present year, it is respectfully suggested that, in lieu of issuing two
millions of the five millions authorized by the act of February, 1813, Congress should authorize an additional loan
for tlrn same amount."
In connection with this he recommended the imposition of new internal taxes.t A bill to authorize a loan of
- - - dollars, was reported in the House of Representatives from the committee of way.s and means July 22, and
considered in committee of the whole July 24. The blu.nk in the bill before the word "dollars" was fillecl with the
words "seven million five hundred thousand". Au attempt was made to amend the bill by inserting a provision
pledging the proceeds of the direct tax an(l the internal duties for the payment of the interest of the loan, but the
House voted it down by a large majorit,y. The debates, if any took place on the subject, have not been recorded.
The bill was slightly amended in the Senate, passed both houses July 30, and was approved August 2, 1813 (3
Statutes, 75). It authorized the Presiclent to borrow, on the credit of the Unitecl States, a sum not exceeding
$7,500,000, reimbnrsable at the pleasure of the United States at any time after the ~xpiration of twelve years from
January 1, 18H. It allowed the sale of certificates of stock, for the purpose of raismg the money, at not less than
$88 in money for $100 of stock. The interest was not limited. A commission of not exceeding one-quarter of 1 per
cent. on the amount sold or for which subscriptions were obtained, was to be allowed to agents. It contained the
usual provision directin~ t.he commissioners of the sinking fund to pay the interest and reimburse the principal
when due; also to purchase the stock, not above par, as they purchased other evidences of the.1mbli? debt. The
faith of the United States was pledged to establish sufficient revenues to make up any deficiency m the funds
provided for its reimbursement. Ban~s in the Di:strict of Columbia were to be allowed to lend any part of it,
notwithstandiqg any provision to the contrary in their charters. Under this act $7,500,000 was obtained in cash,
and stock to the ali10tmt of $8,498,581 95 was issue(l therefor, being a discount of 11.75 per cent.
TREASURY NOTES OF MARCH, 1814.
The acting Secretary of the Treasury, in bis report on the state of the finances, commtmicated to the Senate
January 10, 1814, estimated the expenditure for all purposes during the year 1814 at $45,350,000, and the revenues,
• AnnalA nf 12th Cong., 2d seas., p. 881.

t .American State Papers, "l!uui.nce," vol. ii, p. 623.

346

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

with the balance in the treasury, at $16,000,000, leaving to be provided by loans the sum of $29,350,000.* He said
th~t "although the interest paid on treasury notes is considerably less than that paid for the moneys obtained by
the United States on funded stock, yet the certainty of their reimbursement at the end of one year, and the facilities
they afford for remittances and other commercial operations, have obtained for them a currency which leaves little
reason to doubt that they may be extended considerably beyond the sum of $5,000,000, hitherto authorized to be
annuallyt issued. It will, perhaps, be eligible to leave to the executive, as was done last year, a discretion as to
the amount to be borrowed upon stock or upon treasury notes, that one or the other may be resorted to, within
prescribed limits, as shall be fonncl most advantageous to the United States".
A bill to authorfae the issue of treasury notes was reported from the committee of ways and means February
1, and considered in committee of the whole February 21, 1814. An attempt was made to so amend it as to provic1e
that no note should be issued for a larger amount than $100 nor less than $5, but the House refused to accept the
amendment. The bill passed to a third reading without debate or opposition. It was read a third time February 22,
when an attempt was made to amend it by providing that no note of less than $10 should be issued, which was also
rejected, and the bill passed by yeas 83, nays 48. It passed the Senate without debate or amendment March 1, and
was approved March 4, 1814 (3 Statutes, 100). It authorized the issue of treasury notes for a sum not exceeding
$5,ooo,ooo, and also for an additional sum not exceeding $5,000,000, to be deemed and beld part of the sum which
migl.tt be authorized to be borrowed by virtue of any act passed at that session of Congress. The notes were to be
reirn bursed, at such places, respectively, as might be expressed on the faces of the notes, one year after their respective
dates, and to bear an interest of 5~- per cent. a year, payable at the same times ancl places as the principal should be
im;pble. They were to be issued in payment for supplies to such public creditors us chose to receive them, and the
Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to bol'row, ou the credit of the notes, not under par, such sums as the
President might think expedient, or to sell the notes, not under par; also to employ agents to effect such sales, at a
commission not exceeding one-quarter of 1 per .cent. The notes were to be receivable everJ'Where in pa;yment of
all duties and taxes faid by authority of tbe United States; also for public lands sold. It contained the usual
provision authorizing and directing the commissioners of the sinking fund to reimburs~ the princip·a1 and interest
and to purchase the notes, not above par; also a provision to punish counterfeiting. Notes to the amount of
s10,ooo,ooo were issued under this act.
SIX PER CENT. LOA.NS OF 1814.
A bill to authorize a loan of $25,000,000, to provide, together with the treasury notes of March 4, for the
esHmated deficiency of $29,350,000 in the revenues and receipts of the year, was reported from tl10 committee of
ways and means February 1, 1814. This was the largest loan that, up to that time, had ever been proposed in
Congress, and the idea of increasing the debt of the nation by so large au amount created much opposition and led to nn
exciting debate, which took a wide mnge and brought in incidentally the conduct of the war with Great Britain, its
justice, and its probable results. The bonds of 1813 had only been negotiated at a heavy discount, the treasury
receiving for $26,607,959 38 in bonds but $23 1500,000 in cash. This money had been mostly exhausted in disastrous
at.tempts on Canada, which had e:ffectecl nothing, and hacl only resulted in inflicting on both countries the miseries
of border warfare. The only brilliant successes of which the administration could boast were the naval victories.
The bill, after having been before the House for more than a month, finally passed by yeas 97, nays 55. It passed
the Senate without amendment by yeas 22, nays_ 13, March 19, and was approved March 24, 1814 (3 Statutes, lll).
It authorized the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States, a sum not exceeding $25,000,000,
reimbur1mble at the pleasure of the government at any time after the expiration of twelve years from December 31,
1814. Certificates of stock for this amount, or any part thereof, were authorizecl to be constituted, and the same to
be sold. The Secretary of' the Treasury was directed to lay before Congress, during the first week of February,
1815, an account of all moneys obtaine(1 by the sale of these certificates of stock, with a statement of the rate at
which tlle same bad been sold. Agents were to be employed to negotiate these ce~ti:fi.cates and obtain subscriptiOllS
at a commission of not exceeding one-quarter of 1 per cent. The commissioners of the sinking fund were clirectccl
to reimburse the annual interest and to purchase the certificates, at a price not above par, whenever the condition
of the treasury would permit. The rate of interest and the amount of discount to be paid were not limited. Under
this act a subscription for a loan was opened May 2 for $10,000;ooo.f
.
·
A. loan for ten millions was considered as more likely to prove successful, than if an attempt was made to obtain tho whole amount
of $25,000,00011t on:e· T~e sums offered for this loan amounted to $11,900,8061 of which$2,675, 750 were at rates lcs.s than 8fl per cent. Of
the s~'.'1 of $9,229,0;:i6 which was offered at 88 per cent., or at rates more favorable to the United States, $51 0001000 were offered with tho
cond1t10n aunexed: that if terms more favorable to the lenders should be allowed for any part of the twonty-fivo millions anthorizecl to bo
bor:rowed the present year, the same terms should be extended to those, holding the. stock of the ten million loan.
"American State Papers, "Finance," vol. ii, p. 651, et seq.
t The meaning of the acting Secretary is not very apparent. There was no law at that time authorizing the ann-ual issue of$5,000,0001
or of any other sum.
tReport of tho Secretary of the Treasury, Sept. 26, 1814.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

347

Tak~g int? considem~i~n the expe.ctation then entertained of an early return of peace, and the importance of maintaining unimpaired
the public crccht by sustammg tho price of the stock in the meantime, and also considering the measure as sanctioned by precedent, it
was agreed to accept the lottu with that condition. Had the sum to which the condition was annexed been rejected, the consequence
would have been to reduc.o tho amount olJtaiued to less than five millions, a sum altogether inadequate to the public demands or by
depressing the stock to 85 per cent., have obtained only a little more them six millions, which would have still beeu insufficient to 'au~wer
the purpose of government.

Under these proposals for a loan of ten millions, stock amounting to $9,919,476 25, bearing an interest of 6 per
eent., was issued, and cash to the amount of $7,935,581 was obtained therefor, being a discount of 20 per cent. This
stock, though issued under the act for a loan of $25,ooo,ooo, appears as the "ten million loan of 1814". A portion of
it was issued at the rate of $100 in stock for $88 in cash. But as most of the proposals contained the stipulation:
that if more favorable terms were granted for any part of the money obtained under the act for a loan of $25 000 000
the same terms sh ou1d be granted them; and 'as the second installment of this loan was only negotiated at a ' '
discount'
-0f 20 per cent., it became necessary to equalize the subscribers by issuing to those who had received stock at
88 per cent. supplement~•l stock at the rate of $10 on each hundred of stock held by them. The commissioners of
loans were therefore directed to issue to the holders of certificates of the ten million loan supplemental stock equal
to 10 per cent. of the uominal value of their certificates. This supplemental stock is included in the $9,919 1476 25
issued under this loan.
Proposals were again invited, on the 22d of August, for a loan under the same act. The amount asked for was
$6,000,000. From the subscriptions obtained under these proposals $4,307,307 90 was realized in cash, for which
stock to the amonnt of $51384.,134 87 was issued, a discount of 20 per cent. This appears as the "six million loan
·Of 1814". There was also an additional amount of $740.403 31 issued under this act in the settlement of contracts
for loans, for which $052,534 30 was received in cash. 'This appears as the "Unclesignated six per cent. stock of
1814". The issues nuder the act for a. loan of $25,000,000 amounted to $21,050,014 43, in~luding treasury notes for
:$5,000,000 issued under the act of March 4, 1814, but, by the terms of that act, to be deemed a part of this loan.
'The receipts were $17 ,895,423 26.
MISSISSIPPI STOOK.
At the close of the American Revolution Great Britain, by the treaty of September 3, 1783, surrendered all
-claims to sovereignty over the thirteen original colonies. The treaty declared that the Mississippi should be their
. western boundary, and article 1 relinquished to each of the states, naming them, and Georgia among them, "all
.claims to the government, proprietary, and territorial rights of the same." Under this treaty the state of Georgia,
.as the successor of the colony of that name, claimed to hold a perfect and imlefeasible title to all the lands (not
before granted to private parties) within her limits as far west as the Mif;sissippi river, including nearly all
the present states of Alabama and Mississippi. The only adverse claimants were the Imlian tribes, and over
all the soil occupied by them she held the right of pre-emption. In February, 1785, the legililature of Georgia
-0stablished the county of Bourbon, beginning at the mouth of the Yazoo river and running southward along the
Mississippi river to the thirty-first degree of north latitude. In February, 1788, the legislature authorized the
delegates of the state to cede to the United States all her rights of son, territory, and jurisdiction west of the river
Apalachicola; bnt Congress, by resolution July 15, 1788, refused to accept the cession.•
.
The fact of the possession by the state of Georgia of such an immense body of fertile land appears to have
-0arly a,ttmctecl the attention of speculators, and formed the basis of one of the greatest land speculations on record,
commenced (as the evidence seems to show) by bribery tmcl carried on by fraud ancl perjury.
On the 21.st of December, 1789, the legislature of Georgia passed an a.ct authorizing a grant of the whole country
from the Tombigbee to the Mississippi, comprising nearly the whole of the present state of Mississippi and a portion
.of Alabama, amounting to about 30,000,000 acres, to three companies, called the South Carolina Yazoo, the Virginia
Yazoo and the Tennessee companies, for the sum of $207,580, or rather less than one cent per acre. An inconsid. ancl the whole amount
€rable sum was pa,id, in the paper money of the state, by the first two mentioned compames,
of the purchase-money was tendered to the treasurer in the depreciated certificates or evidences of the public debt of
Georght, the acceptance of which was refused. It seems to have been considered that the grant had lapsed by non;p11yment of the purc1rnse-money, for, on the 7th of January, 1795, the legislature passed an act authorizing the sale
-0f nearly the entire country from the Alabama river to the Mississippi, estimatecl at from tbirty-:11ve to :fifty million
acres, to four companies, called the Georgia, the Georgia Mississippi, the Upper Mississippi, and the Tennessee,
for the sum of $500,000, which a.mount was paid into the treasury of the State. t

'

*Journals of Congress, vol. iv, pp. 834, 835.
t .American State Papers, "Public Lands," vol. i, pp. 133, 149.

348

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC IN~EBTEDNESS.

Sweeping charges of bribery were made, affecting with greater or less particularity almost every member of the
legislature. Nor is the history of the case confined to such charges involving members of the state senate and of
the house of representatives, with more or less of detail as to the acts and the expressions of lobby agents and of
members. State officials of peculiar and special responsibility in the care of the financial honor of the state were
the objects of like charge& of corruption and bribery.
It was not only the current report and the testimony of witnesi;;es that negroes and land were freely transferre<l
to influence votes, but darker crimes were suspected. A senator, who had borne witness to the corruption and who
was expected to confess complicity in the same, being murdered fa his own house, the murder was attribnterl to tho
motirn, "that he, together with his testimony, might be consigned to oblivion." The llistory of the tmnsaetion
iIJYolves the name of nearly every man at the time connected with the administration of the state government.
While tile popular verdict was that the corruption was almost universal, there were indivicluals who even in
the rumors of the hour kept a clean name before the public, and saved the state from the disgrace of unanimous
dereliction of its legislators and its officials to their trusts.
The alienation of so vast a body of fertile land, under such suspicious circumstances and for so insigniiicant a.
price, appears to bave produced a great excitement among the people of Georgia. A new legislature was chosenr
whose members proceeded, as far as in them lay, to undo the work of their predecessors, by passing, February 13,
17!.HJ, an act "declaring null and yoicl a certain usurped act imssecl by the last legislature of this state, at Augustat
on the 7th tlay of January, 1795, under the pretended title of: An act supplementary to an act entitled an act for
appropriating a part of the unlocatecl territory thereof for the protection of the frontier, and for other purposes".
This act, after declaring the act by which the territory was sold to be unconstitutional, imssecl by usurped nuthority,
fraud, and collusion, declared the whole void, and all grants obtained under it "annulled, renclered void, and of no
effect; and as the same was made without constitutional authority, and fraudulently obtained, it is hereby declared
of no binding force and efl:'ect on this state or the people thereof, but is an cl are to be considered, both law and grants,
as they ought to be, ipso .facto, of themselves void, and the territory therein-mentionecl is also hereby declared to be
the sole property of the state, subject only to the right of treaty of the United States to enable the state to purcluiso,
under its pre.emption right, the Indian title".
All documents and deeds connected with the purchase were ordered to be expunged from the books of record
of the state, and the act itself to be publicly burnt. The governor was directed to return, to those who had bona jlae
paid it, the money received into the treasury for the land.*
"Tllen," says Mr. Troup, of Georgia, in his speech of March 8, 1814, "such a scene of fraud, iniquity, aml
depravity was exhibited, that the governor, familiar as he had been with such scenes but a short time before,.
blushed, and shut the doors of the treasury against them. Men concerned in this transaction, but who had not
deposited one dollar, by perjury, forgery, or some other crime, drew thousands from the treasury".t
On the 24th day of April, 1802, Georgia ceded to the United States all her territory south of the state of
Tennessee and west of the Uhattahoochieriver. By the terms of the cession the United States was to pay Georgia,
out of the first net proceeds of the sales of the land thus ceded, $1,250,000, and to have the right to reserve t>,000,000.
acres, or the proceeds of their sale, for the purpose of satisfying any claims which might be made to any part of the
ceded territory.t
The question now came up: what were those claims' Besides the claimants under Spanish, French, an<l
B~itish ~rants, and those held from Georgia under actual survey and settlement, whose title was not, as a general
thmg, drsputed, the grantees under the repealed act of January 7, 1795, and purchasers under them, claimed ne11rly
the whole territory. It appeared, on investigation, that the following companies were the claimants and had paid
into the treasury of Georgia, as stated :
'
Georgrn
' Company .. ·- -· .••..•.••• _...... _..••.• --· ·-. -·· ..• -· .•.• ·- ....•..•••••••. _-·· ,_. _•••• ___ . -· .• -· $250, 000
~eorgia Mississippi Company •.. __ .•.•.••......• _·- •...••.•....•.•••••.....•••••.••••••••••.• __ . • • • • . • • . 155, 000
ennesseo Company·---···-·· •••••• ···--· •••••• -···--·· ••.• ····-··-·--·.'••••••••. ··---· ...••. ···-··.....
60 , 000
Upper Mississippi Company . _. _•.••••••••..•• _•.•.•••••..•.• , ...................... _•• _.•• __ ••• _•.•... _.
35, OOO

Total._.-· ... -··· .•• --· ..•••.•.•••. ·- ---- .•. --·. ·-·· •••••• ·-· ·-· __ •••.••••••••.•.• ·- .••• _••••.. -··

--500,000

Beside these companies the New England Mississippi. Land Company claimed a large portion of the original
purchase, or preti;mded P:U-.cbas~, ?f the Georgia Mississippi Company, by transfer from said company, ~~ml there
w_ere a large nm:iber of citizens rights, so-called, being claims of individuals who had purchased tracts from tho
different C-Ompames.
".American State Papers, "Publio Lands," vol. i, pp. 156-158.
t .Annals of13th Cong., p. 1839.
t.American State Papers, "Public Lands," vol. i, pp. 125, 126.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

349

.Although the four original companies hacl paid into the treasury of Georgia the half million dollars required
by the ,terms of the act of January 7, 1795, yet of this they had withdrawn, under the act of February 13 1796
$310,695 14~, leaving the sum of $189,304 85i\- actual expenditure.* For this insignificant sum then they clai~ed t~
hold the fee-simple title to nearly 50,000,000 acres of as fertile land as is to be found on' the c~ntinent on the
. by her constituted authorities, had sold and transferred the territory to them
' and
ground that the state of Georgia,
that no power existed in an~ legishiture to undo the work of its predecessor where a right had become vested'.
The New England Mississippi Land company claimed that even if the original title had been secured by fraud
and corruption, yet the.)' were thewselves innocent purchasers, buying before the repeal of the act, under the faith
of deeds confirmed by the broad seal of the state, and without notice of fraud. But as the state of Georgia
notwithstanding she had formally sold ancl transferred the lands to them, hacl subsequently sold and transferred
the same territory to the United States for the sum of $1,250,000, the five companies proposed, January 10, 1803, to
also sell their right~ in the same to the United States, for the sum of $10,000,000, of which $4521000 was to go to
the holders of citizens' rights, and $9,548,,000 to be paid to the .representatives of the companies.t
The debates on this subject took a very wide range in Congress, and the question was not settled until eleven
years afterward. On the one hand it was alleged that the claimants were entitled to the land, it having been
sold to them by Georgia, and that the attempt of the succeeding legislature to destroy the title was of no effect, as
being directly contrary to the provision of the Constitution which forbids the passage of any law to impair the
obligations of contracts.
On the other hand it was said that there had never been a real sale to these companies; that no contract
existed to be impaired, as fraud vitia.tes all contracts, and no contract existecl in a legal and equitable sense; that
the constitution of the state of Georgia gave her representatives no right to rob and plunder the people; that even
the claimants no longer asserted the validity of the law, but threw themselves on the mercy of Congress; and that
it was evident that, while we might vote a small sum as a gratuity or to quiet the shadow of title, we could not
pretend to purchase, as a reality, a title obtained, as was said, "where the corrnption in which the transaction was
engendered, was a corruption without example in history."
It seems to have been thought by the majority of Congress that the titles of the companies and those claiming
under them, though obtained by fraud, were of sufficient weight to interfere materially witli the settlement of the
Mississippi territory, and it was therefore best to extinguish them by a compromise.
On the 26th of March the bill to compromise with the claimants passed the House of Representatives by yeas
84, nays 76, and became a law March 31""1814 (3 Statutes, 116). It directed certificates of stock, not bearing
interest, payable out of the first money in the treasury of the United States arising from the sale of public lands in
tlle Mississippi territory, after the money clue to the state of Georgia and the expenses of surveying the lands llacl
been satisfied, to be issued to an amount not exceeding $5,00o,ooo, of which not exceeding $4, 750,000 was to go to
the representatives of the companies and $250,000 to the holclers of citizens' rights.
Under this act the Mississippi stock, as it was called, was issued to the amount of $4,282,036 92. This stock
was receivable in part payment for lands in the territory.

.

TEMPORARY LOAN .A.ND TREASURY NOTES OF D EOEMBER, 1814.
It will be seen by reference to what has been said on the " Six per cent. loans of 1814 ", authorized by the act of
March 24, that the treasury still held an unexecuted authority to borrow the sum of $7,104,576 74. But the loans
effected had only been obtained at an enormous discount; the probability of obtaining more, except at a still
gTeater discount, was doubtful; and there was pressing need for money to carry on the war.
Congress had adjourned, in April, to meet the last Monday .in October, more than a month earlier than usual;
but the financial outlook was so alarming that the President summoned them to meet on the 19th of September.
It would ·seem as though more authority to borrow was not needed, but Congress nevertheless proceeded to pass
an act to authorize another loan for three millions, which was approved November 15, 1814 (3 Statutes, 144).
Under the provisions of this act "authority was given to raise, by loan, a sum nol; exceeding $3,000,000
(11articnlarly destined to provide for the expenditures of the last quarter of the year 1814), and to cr~a~e s~ock for
the amount reimbursable at any time after twelve years from the 31st of December, 1814. No hm1tation was
prescribed ~s to the rate of interest or the price of the stock; but it was declared that, in payment of subscriptions
to this loan or to loans authorized by any other act of Congress, it should be lawfnl to receive treasury notes
becoming d~1e on or before the 1st of January, 1815,,at their par value, together with the iuterest accrued. The
payment of the interest, and the redemption or the purchase of' the stock to be thus created, were charged npon
the sinking fund; but the act contained these further assurances: (1st) That in addition to the annu~l sum of
$8,000,000 heretofore appropriated to the sinking fund, adequate and permanent fu~ds should be prov1d~d ~nd
.appropriated during that session of Congress, for the payment of the interest and the reimbursement of the prmc1pal
of the stock; aml (2d) that an adequate and permanent sinking fund, grad~ally to re~nce, and eventua~ly to
extinguish, the public debt contracted during the war, should aJ.so be established dmmg the same sess10n of
~.American State Papers, ''Public Lands,'' vol. i, pp. 149, 150.

tlbid., pp. 151, 152.

350

VALUATION, .TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

Congress".* No stock was issued under_ this act, however, but the ~um of $1,450,00~ was borrowed f~om the banks
under special contracts. A new issue of treasury notes was conside~ed mor.e desirable than the issue of more
stock which could be realized in cash only by the payment of a rmnous discount. Many of the banks of the
coun;ry had suddenly suspendeu specie payments, and their notes, whi~h had beeµ payable on demand, now formed:
a depreciateu and doubtful circulating medium. Treasury notes, receivable everywhere for dues and customs, and
guaranteed by the United States, were better than these, and it. was determined to make a new issue of them .
.A. bill for that purpose was introduced in the House of Representatives December 5, passed the Honse on the 8th,.
the Senate on the 22d, apparently without debate, and was approved December-26, 1814 (~ Statut~s,, 161). It was
entitled "An act supplemental to the acts authorizing a loan for the several sum~ of twentJ-:fi.ve milhons of dollars.
and three millions of dollars", and provided that, in lien of the money authorized to be borrowed by those acts
and not vet obtained there should be issued treasury notes; but not to exceed the sum of $7,500,000. It also.
provided ·for a furthe; issue of $3,000,000 to defray the expenses of the War Department for the ;year 1814, in
addition to the sums before appropriated by law for that pur1)ose.. The notes were to bear interest, to bereimbursable, and receivable in like manner with those issued under the act of March 4, 1814, and the same authority
was given to employ agents to make sale of them. Under this act notes to the amount of $8,318,400 were issued~
DIRECT-TAX LOAN.
An attempt was made, after the passage of the act of January 9, 1815, to anticipate a part of the revenues of'
the year, by borrowing money ancl pledging, for its repayment, the sum which should be raised under the net for·
laying a" direct tax".t
There was upparently pressing need of money, though the necessity was not so great as it seemed. The heavy
expenses estimated for the year were principally for carrying on the war with Great Britain, and this war had been.
formally closed by the treaty of peace, signed at Ghent, December 24, 1814, but the fact was not yet known in this
country, and preparations for continuirlg the strnggle still went on. While Congress was debating the bill for
ia~·ing a direct tax, a powerful army, commanded by the British General Pakenham, was threatening' tho cit.y of
New Orleans, and on the 8th of January, the day before the bill passed, the invaders received a severe defeat from
'
tile militia of the southwest, under the command ofMajor·General Andrew Jackson.
Secretary Dallas, in his report on the state of the treasury at the close of the year 1814 and the 111em1s to be
provided for the coming year, estimated the expenditures necessary during the year 1815 at $56,032,034 G9, ancl the
re,·enue from existing sources at $15,125,909 83, leaving a deficiency of $40 1906,124 86 to be providecl for.:j: A part;
of this deficiency it was proposed to raise by direct taxes, and an act passed Congress, and was approved J'mnrnry
!l, 1815, for laying a direct tax of $6,000,000, proportioned among the several states according to vopul11tio11.
Section 42 (3Statutes,179) provided that the President might authorize.the Secretary of tho Treasury to antieipato the
collection of the tax by obtaining a loan on the pledge of the tlirect taxes to an amount not exceeding $G,ooo,ooo, n.t
a rate of interest not exceeding 6 per cent. per annum. This clause does not seem to have formed the subjeet o:f
debate in Congress. Very little was done under this provision of the act. It was impossible to raise money when.
it was pas!:ied, at 6 per cent. interest, without submitting to a heavy discount. Had the war continuecl the discount
would probably have been paid, but the news of peace, received soon after the passage of· the aot renderotl
anticipations of the revenue unnecessary. The sum of $200,000 was borrowed during the year 1815 at ~)fil' unclor
.
'
'
the authority thus granted, and it was redeemed the same year.

TEMPORARY LOAN OF 1815.
The damage done to the public buildings in the city of Washington, by an incursion of the enemy on the night.
of August 24, 181~, gave rise to this loan. The President's house was burned, and the Capitol was seriously
damag_e~. They did not attempt to blow up the building, being probably short of powder, but tried to fire it.
Its sohd1ty, ~owe;er, prevented its receiving extensive damage in that way, and the few hours the enemy were able·
to hold the city did not allow of extended efforts at its destruction. The next session of Oongress was held in a
*American State Papers, "Finance," vol. iii, p. 5.
t The tern~ "m:ect tax", in the history of United States finance, has a significance widely different from that which it possesses in
ge~eral economwal ~1te~at~e .or whi~h would be attributer~ to it in other countries. By the third clause of the second section of tho first.
arfo~cle of the ~o~stit~t1011.1t is pron~ed that "representatives and clii'eot taxes shall be apportioned among tho several states which may
~ :~u~~d withm this umon, ~c~ordmg to their respective numbers,'' &c., &c. From this it follows, for example, that if the iiopnlatiou,
Umted States be fifty millions, and that of Massachusetts two millions, Massachusetts must be assessed tot.he extent of four per·
cen:., n~ more. an<l no les~, of every "direct tax". Under this provision of tho Constitution the term "direct tax" has acquired thl.'ongh
~egislahv? action and by the decisions of the Supreme C?urt, a highly techuical and closely restricted meaning. A tax on iu~omes .for
instance, 18 not a di:ect tax: New York, though containing only one-tenth of the' population of the Unit~d States may constitution'allytax · .A. tax on carr'rnges is
· no t a d'rrect t ax'. The pnnc111a-l
· ·
·
pay
C one.fifth
t' . of an mcome
.
<11rect
taxes levied uncl.er' the provisions of the•
ons 1tutio~ above cited have been taxes on lands and houses and on slaves.
t.Amencan State Papers, "Finance," vol. ii, pp. 886, 887.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

351

building on First street east, fitted up temyorarily for this purpose and known for many years afterward as the
"Old Capitol". At this session a bill was introduced to repair or rebuild the Capitol, President's house, and public
buildings, and authorizing a loan of $500,000, at an interest not exceeding G per cent., from any bank or banks
within the District of Columbia, or individuals, to be applied exclusively to that object. It was approved February
13, 1815 (3 Statutes, 205), and under this authority $225,000 was borrowed from the banks in the District. During the
debate, a suggestion was made that the Capitol ought either to be rem.oved to some other part of the Union, or
other localities for the executive departments·be chosen if Washington was still to remain the seat of government.
The debate throws some light on the condition of things in the city at that time, twenty-four years after the
District was laid out. Mr. Fromentin, a senator from Louisiana, said:
When I cast my eyes on this wilderness, dignified with tho name of a city-a city, to ho sure, very unlike that old-fashioned one in
Europe alluded to hy tho Irishman, who, when placocl in the midclln of it, compbiucd thu.t ho couldn't see tho cit.y for ti:io houses-sir,
we run no risk of hearing any such complaints about this city. F.very Irishman who arrives here may hu.vo 11 fnll view of the whole
ground at once. Nono of those incumbrances cu.Heel houses limit the uoundless prospect; or, if there be a few, he may amoJ1g those few
open a complaisant gap, through which his inquisitive eye may picrce•to a distance limited only by the foot of tho surrounding hills.
Bnt, sir, the subject is too serious to admit of its being treatetl with levity. Let me then return to it, aucl seriously inquire about the
present state and future prospects of this city. ·what tlo wo seo hero 1 Twelve or f1fteen clusters of houses at a considerable distance
from each other, hringing to our recollection tho appearance of a camp of nomad .A.mbs, which, however, if connected together, would
make a respectable town, not much inforior, perhaps, to the capital of 'Virginia, aud hero and there u.n isolated house; the whole of it,
when seen from tho ruins of our public edifices, looking more like the place where proml Washington once stood than where humble
·washington now lies. If such is tho situation of tho city after fifteen years since tho government removed here, during the first six:
years of which period there prevailed not only in this country, uut all over Europe, a clegreo of enthusiasm bordering on madnees
respecting the future tlestinies of this metropolis, ancl llnring which perioll of six years, too, lhis country still cnj oycd the benefits of the
administration of ·washington, whose good deocls for several years after his death were still in force-Washington in his tomb still
securing tho prosperity of his 1.Jolovecl country !-if, sir, such bo now tho situation of this city, what, in tho present state of things, are
our prospeats for the future7 Awful, indeell! How many ages· must elapse ueforo this chaos is likely ·to assumo anything like a
describable shape? How many before these disjointed, distracted, warring clements mity be brought together so as to form a whole,
wllich may entitle it to be called what it uow purports to be, bt1t is not? Is it not time, then, that wo givo 111) tho unsuccessful e:qrnriment7
Is it not time that wo shoulcl adopt less lofty ideas; that we shonlcl assume sentiments, that we should express opinions more conformable
to our present situo.tion? Troja f1iit, Ilimn fuit. * " * I am sensible that by so doing we woul<l seem to punish the people of this
District for having placed too much coufillouco in our words. In our words, did I say f In our aets, sir! Look at the now rnins of the
monuments on yonder hill. \Vere these rnassy.walls, which have set at defiance the whole power of an enemy bent on their destruction,
intended to last only tho short space of a dozen years f In these snr\•iving walls I read, in characters not to be effaced, the contract of
the nation with tho l)COple of this District. I find in. these walls au agreement signed, sealed, u.ucl delivered. ·Certainly, sir, yon must
be convinced from what I have said that I do not dissemble to myself, ancl that I am not willing to conceal from others, tho equity of
the claims of the people of this Distl'ict. " .. * But, sir, if we are to remain here as we now aro, with no more cheering prospects
than those presontecl in the hill 1row on the tu.ble, I do not hesitate to declare that auy i11ace in the Unitell States 11ppcars to me preferaule
to Washington; and tho socmer we go, no matter .how heavy the compensation justly duo to tho inhabitants of this Distdct, the bettor.
(Benton's Abridgement, vol. v, p. 306, et seq.)

Despite the senator's eloquence, however, Congress concluded to remain in Washington, and passed the bill
to repair the damages; perhaps convinced by the arguments of Mr. Lewis, of Virginia, who so.id that no changes
ought to be made, nor should the plan of the city be altered, because "it was a pfan sanctioned by that g1:eat and
good man whose nu.me it bears. What that man has clone, let no mortal attempt to up.do, for his ways are not to
be mended by man. This house is not competent to do it". He considered "the two public eclifices, the foundation
stones of which our ever.to-be-revered hero, statesman, and patriot laid, as permanently fixed by public faith" .. It
is probable that few members of Congress, seeing that the result of tweuty-four years' effort was but some halfruined buildings, and "twelve or fifteen clusters of houses", or straggling villages, without trade or commerce, could
have anticipated the time when the fair city of to-day should stand a worthy monument of its founder, showing an
increase in population and wealth equaled by few places in the Union.
SEVEN PER OENT. STOOK-TREASURY NOTES-SMALL TREASURY NOTES-TREASURY-NOTE
STOOK OF 1815.
It will appear from the remarks on the direct tax loan that the estimated deficiency in the revenue of the
nation for the year 1815 was $40,90G,124 86. It was proposed to raise this amount partly by direct taxes on land,
inheritances, legal instruments, fl.our, dividends of banks, sales of stocks of incorporated companies, and incomes,
partly by loans, and partly by new issues of treasury notes.
A bill to authorize the issue of treasury notes for the service of the year was reported in the House of
Representatives Ja.nuary 30, 1815, and referred to a committee of the whole. The bill appears to have passed
through its several stages in both houses without discussion. As :first reported, it proposed an issue of $15,000,000
in notes, redeemable in :five annualinsjallments of $3,000,000 each, for which the land tax was pledged. Connected
with this plari was the intention to propose a loan of $25,000,000. The bill was amended in committee of the whole,
so as to provide for an issue of $251000,000 in treasury notes. This amendment, as reported, was connected with
a proposed loan of $15,000,000, thus reversing the proportion of loan and treasury notes. 'rhe bill passed finally,
with some further slight amendments, and was approved February 24, 1815 (3 Statutes, 213.) News of the signing

852

VALUATION, TAXATION,·AND PUBLIU INDEBTEDNESS.

of the treat:v of peace was received a few days before the bill passed, rendering it no longer necessary as a war
mcmmre 1m"t it was nevertheless carried through, to afford means of paying off the arrearages of the war, and to
give n, ci~·cufating medium to the country superior t~ the paper of the suspended and d.oub~ful state banks..
. ..
Tlw act authorized the issue of $25,000,000 m treasury notes, of such <lenorrnna.t10ns as the S~cietary of
the Treasury, with the approbation 0f the President, should direct. Notes of less than $100 were to be payable to
bearer, transferable by delivery alone, and were to bear no interest. Notes of $100 and upward were t~ be made
payable to order, transferable by deliYery and assignment indorsed on the notes, and w?re to bear an mterest of
fi.ll per cent. per annum from the day they were issued. The holders of these notes might present them at the
tr~easury at any time, in sums of not less than $100, and be entitled to receive therefor certificates of fnnd.ed stock,
bearing interest., the stock issued for notes of less than $100 to bear an int~r~st of 7 per cent., a.nd thn.t ISsuecl fo1·
notes of $100 and upward to bear an interest of' 6 per cent. per annum, this mterest to .be pa.yable quarter-yearly.
'l'he United States were to have the right to redeem these certificates at any time after December 31, 1824.
The Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to cause the notes which should be surreudered in exclrnnge for
funded stock, and also those recefred b,y the United States for taxes, dncs, or demands, to be reissued and applied
anew as wllen originally issued. The notes were to be received, principal and interest due, in all payments to the
United States; and in such pa;yments the interest on the interest-beariug notes was to be computell at l;l- cent per
duy ou C\'ery $100 of principal, and each month was to be computed as consisting of thirt.y days. The notes we1~e
to be i;;sned at par, in payment for ser\'ices, supplies, or debts, to such persons as were willing to receive them, 11nd
the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to borrow money on the credit of the notes, or to sell them, not nmlor
par, or to deposit them in such banks as would receive them and give credit therefor to the treasurer of the United
States.
The act also allowed the funding of any treasury notes issued under laws previously passed u1Jon the same
terms and in the same manner as prescribed in this act for the notes to be issnecl under it, bearing an interest of
51} per cent.
The notes issued under this act were denominated at the treasury, for convenience, the "small" and "hi.rgt~"
treasury notes, the sma.11 notes being all less than $100 each, funrlable at 7 per cent. interest, and the large notes,
those of $100 and upward, fundable at 6 per cent. '\Vhen received for dues and imposts, or funded stock, they were
again :rut in circulation, each reissue being of course equivalent to a newissue, but of these reissues no separiito
account appears to have been kept. Of the small notes the original issue appears to have been $3,392 1D94. Those,
as received and funded in 7 per cent. stock, were reissued and again received and funded, until the 7 per cont. stock
amounted to $9,0707 3~6. Of the large notes the original issue was $4,969,400, of which there were funded from the
original issues aml reissues $1,505,352 18.
.
Secretary Dallas reported, February 24, 1815, that the public debt had been increased, in consequence of the
war with Great Britain, $68,783,122 13.* But as the treasury notes issued and redeemed or fnndecl under the acb
of February 24 were used mainly to pay off arrearages of the war, the amount so used should be added to the smn
stated by the Secretary. We may, therefore, safely state the increase of the public debt caused by tho war at
nearly eighty-eight millions of dollars.
SIX PER CENT. LOANS OF 1815.

· A large portion of the war debt at the close of the year 1814 was due and unpaid, while another considcmible
})ortion was fast becoming due. These unpaid or accruing demands were in part for tempora.ry loans obtained under
the act of March 14, 1812, and the balance for treasury notes issued under various acts and hy the terms of their
issue either due or maturing daily. When the news of peace was received, it was evide~t that tho expenses woulcl
be reduced, while the revenues of the United States would be much increased by the revival of commerce nucl tho
renewal of the importations whicll llad been stopped by the war; yet, under the system of credit for duties allowed
l)y the governm~n~, it would be many months before this increase could reach the treasury, where it could be used
t-0 pay off the millions of dollars of government paper afloat and un1)aifl.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his report of February 24, 1815, estimated the amount due or soon to become
due for temporary loans and ti:easury notes at $181452,800.*
A bill to authorize a loan for - - - d~rs was introduced in the House of Representatives February 25, 1815,
and appears to have passed both houses almost without debate. It was consideretl in committee of the whole
.March 2, when l\fr. Eppes, chairman of the committee of ways and means, expressed his re,,.ret that the bill bad
been delaye~ to so late a period of the session-a delay, however, which had not arisen from a~y neglect on tho part;
of the committee of ways and means! but from the pressure of other business. Tbe loan necessary for the present;
year w~ for the purpose of redeemmg treasury notes charged on the sinking fund. Of these notes there would
fall due~ ~e yea: 181~ eight ~illions and upward, and in the month of March, 1815, $10,000,000, being the whole
amount m circulation, :1z, $18,402,800. The loan might be confined to the amount of notes payable during the year,
but as the notes due in 1816 might return to the treasury as a part of the receipts of' 1815, being receivable iu
"American State Papers, "Finance,'' vol, ii, p. 917.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

353

payment of all debts due the United States, it had been thought better to authorize a loan for the whole amount.
He i,herefore moved to fill the blank with the sum of $18,452,800. This motion was agreed to. The act was
approved March 3, 1815 (3 Statutes, 227). It authorizecl the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States,
a sum not exceeding $18,45'.~,soo, to be applied to defray any expenses which had been or might be authorized by law
during the year. No engagement was to be entered into, which should preclude the United States from reimbursing
any sum borrowed under the act at any time after the expiration of twelve years from December 31, 1827.
Tll.e Secretary of the Treastll'jT was to lay before Congress, during the first week in Fcuruary, 18Hl, an account
of all proceedings under the act.
Authority was given to employ agents for the purpose of obtaining subscriptions or selling the stock of the
new loan, at a commission of not exceeding one-quarter of 1 per cent., and $30,000 was appropriated to pay their
commissions. The smplus of the sinking fund was pledged for the payment of the interest and the reimbursement
of the princip~1l. Banks in the District of Columbia were allowed to lend any part of the sum authorized to be
borrowed, anything in their charters to the contrary notwithstanding.
Treasury notes actually issued before the passage of the act, and charged b;y law upon the sinking fund, were
to be receivable, both principal and interest due, in payment of subscriptions.
The last clause of the act related to interest on treasury notes, and authorized the payment of interest on such
notes, due and unpaid, until the time when funds should be assigned for their payment and notice thereof given.
The rate of interest and discount was not limited.
It was found impossible to place.much of the loan at par, even though payment of the subscriptions was only
required in treasury notes or in the depreciated paper of the state banks, owing to causes set forth in the report
-0f the Secretary of the Treasury, December 8, 1815 : "'.
At the close of tho last session of Congress the demands on the treasury were interesting in their nature as well as great in their
amount. Exclusive of tho ordinary expenses of tho government, they consisted of demands for the payment of tho army 1 preparu,tory
to its reduction to the peace establishment, with other very heavy arrearages and disbursements i.n the \Var aucl Navy Depu,rtmenta; for
the payment of the divi<1cnds on the funded debt, and of tho arrearages al! well as tho accruing clnims ou accouut of the trerumry-note
debt; ancl for the payment of the Louisi11na dividends, with othei: considerable debts contracted in Europe in consequence of the late war.
The efficiency of tho me~ns which were possessed for tho liquillation of these demanlls llepeudecl upon circumstances beyond the
-0ontrol of the government. '.l'he bn,lance of money in tho treasury consisted of bank creditB, lying chiefly in the southern aud western
11ections of the Union. 'l'he revenue proceeding from t.he pi:ovision maclo prior to the last session of Congress was, comparatively, of small
amount. The revenue proceecling from tho provision made during tha,t session conlcl not be available for n, great poi:tion of the preaent
year, ancl, in both instnnces, the revenue was 1>ayable in treasury notes, qr it assumecl the form of bank credits, at tho respective places of
-0ollection. The only remaining resources for immediate use were an aclditioual issue of treasury notes and a loan ; but the successful
-0mployment of these i:esources was rendered for some timo uoubtfL1l by the peculinr situation of the credit ancl currency of the nation.
The snspe11siou of s11ecie payments tl1roughout the greater portion of tho Unitecl States ancl the consequent cess11tion of tho interchange
of bnnk notes and bank ci:e11ifo between the institutions of the cliffercnt States, had deprivecl tho treasury of all the facilities of transferring
its funds from place to place; and a proposition which wns made, at an o!Lrly period, to the principal banks of tho commercial cities, on
t.ho line o~ tho Atlantic, with a view in some clct,"l'ee to restore those facilities, coulcl not be effectccl for the want of a concurrence in the
requisite number of banks. Hence it bns happenecl (and the duration of the evil is without nny posit.ive limitation) that, hewevei: aclequaw
t,he public revemrn may be, in its general product, to discharge tho public engagements, it becomes totally inadequate in the process of its
application, since the possession of public fun els in one i)ai:t no longer nfforcls the evidence of n fiscal cu,pacity to discharge a public debt
in any other part of the Union.
From tho suspension of specie imyments nnd from various other causes, real oi: imaginary, differences in the rate of exchange arose
between ·tlie several states an cl oven between tho several clistricts in tho same state; aud the embarrassments of tho treasury were more
.aml more increased, sinco Congress had not sauctionocl any allowance on account of the rate of exchange, nncl the amount of the legislative
appropriations was the same wherever the legislative objects were to lm effected. But tho treasury notes partook of the inequalities of
the exchange in the tmnsactious of inclividuals, although tho keasnry coulcl only issue them at their par value. 'l'he publfo stock, created
in consideration of a loan, also pai:took of tho ineCJnalities of the ex:chango, although to the government tho value of tho stock created
and tlio obligation of the debt to be discharged were the same wherover the subscription to the loan might be made.
Thv.s, notwithstaucling the ample revenue provided aud permanently pleclgecl for the payment of tho public credit.or, and
notwitbstancling the auspicious influence of peace upon the resources of the nation, tho market price of the trensui:y notes and of the
irnblic stock was everywl1ei:e fai: below its par or true value for a considerable perioc1 aftei: the adjournment of Congress, Tibrating,
however, with a change of place, from the rate of 75 to the rate of 90 per cent. Payments in bank paper were universally preferred during
that period to payments in the papei: of the government; ancl it was a natural consequence that whei:ever the treasury failed in procuring
.a local currency it fa!led also in making a stipulnted payment.
Unrler these extraordinary nucl perplexing circumstances the great effoi:t of the treasury was, 1st, to provide promptly and effectually
for nll urgent cloroancls, at tho proper placo of payment, ancl foi: tho i:equisite amount of funds; 2d, to overcome tho difficulties of the
circuhiting medium, as far as it was practicabfo, so that no creditor shonlcl i:ecoive more and no debtor pay less, in effective valne, on the
same account, than every othei: creclitor or every other clebtor; ancl, 3cl, to avoicl any unreasonable sacrifico of the }Yll;blio propertyt
particularly when it must also be attendecl with a sacrifice of the p11blic credit. It was not expeotecl that this effort would everywhere
i1ro<luco the same satisfaction anrl the same results; but the belief is entertained that it has been successful in the attamment of its
objects to the extent of' a just, 11nt.icipation.

Uncler the act certificates of stock to tll~ amount of $12,288,147 56 were issuecl and cash to the amount of
Redemption of tllis stock began in the
year L817 and was completed in 1835.

$11,699,3~6 63 received therefor, an average discount of about 4~ per cent.

•American State P11pers, "Finance," vol. iii, ii. 10,
23WD'l'

354

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBrrEDNESS.

A tempora.ry Joan of $1 150,000 was also obtained under this act, at par, making the total amount of debt
7
contracted nnder it $13,438,147 5G, yielding in cash $12,849,326 63.

FIVE PEH CENT. J;,OAN OF 1816.

The annual message of ,Tames Madison, President of the United States, sent to Congress December 5, 1815r
contained the following paragraph in relatfon to a national ?urrency:
It is essential to every mo<lificatiou of the fiuanccs that the benefits of a uuiform national currency ~bould be restored to tho
commuuity. The absence of the precious metals will, it is lieliovcd, be a temporary e\·il 1 but, unf;il they can agam be renclere<l. tho goneruJ:
1
medium of ex.change, it devolves on the wisdom of Congress to provide a substitute which shall equally engag~ the conficlouee :m<l
accommoilate the wants of the citizens throughout the Uuion. If the operation of the State banks cannot produce tl11s resnlt, tho prnbahle·
operation of a 11ation11l hank will merit consideration, and if neither of these expeilients be cleemed effoctu.a1, it may ~ec01ne rnicessar~ to·
ascertain the terms upon which the notes of tho government (no longer i·equirecl as an instrument of crecht) shall be1ssuecl, upon rnohYCJ&
of general policy, as a common medium of circulation.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in his annual report on the state of the finances, laid before the House December
In this.
report he said:*

1,' 1815, advised tlle creation of a United States bank .as a remedy for the evils of a depreciated curreney.

The cstablisbmeut of a natioual hank, authorized to issue notes which will be received ill- all payments to tho United Stu.tos, is regarded
as the best and perhaps the only adequate resource to relieve the country and the government from the present emharritssments. 'l'ho
circb.lation of its issues vdll be coextensive with the Union, aml there will exist a constant tlemn.nd, boaring a just proportion to tho
annual amount of the duties and taxes to he collected, inrlependeut of the general circulation. A national biink wlll, therefore, 110ssess
the means awl the opportunity of supplying a circulating medium of' equal nso and value in every state ancl in every l1istrict of every stato.

The committee on a national currency having directed their chairman, Hon. John C. Calhoun, to request from
Mr. Dallas his views on certain points relating to the currency, the Secretary, in reply, December 24, 1815, sent ~.
plan for the establishment of a United States bank: with arguments in its favor.
Mr. Calhoun, as chairman of the special committee, reported to the House, January 8, 1816, .a bill to incorpor11tothe subscribers to the Bank of the United States. It was ilrst considered in committee of the whole Febrmtry 20,
and was under discussion for about two weeks. Tlle constitutional questions, which had occupied so much time in
discussing the bill for chartering the first Bank of the United States, received little attention. The debate turned:
principally on the advantages and disadvantages of a national bank, on the details of the bill, and on the question:
whether it was possible, through its aid, t<> colTect the evils of the miserably depreciated paper tha,t t,ben formed
almost the sole currency.
The bill passed the House Mai·ch 14, 1816, by a vote of 80 yeas to 71 nays.
An analysis of the vote shows that it was not as sectional as the vote to charter the first Bank of tbe UniiiedJ
States, and that the locality'of the opposition had changed. A considerable majority of southern members votecl
for the bill, while there was a small majority fro.n the North and East against it.
The debate in the Sen~te was principally confined to some of the details of the bill, and but littlo was s11kl on
the general question, or on its constitntional aspects. It passed the Senate, with some slight amendments, April 3.
The amendments were concurred in by the Honse, and the bill became a law April 10, 1816 (3 Statutes, 269).
It provided that a Bank of the United States should be established, with a capital of $35 1000 1000, di,vi<led into·
350,000 shares of ~!100 each. Seventy thousand of these shares, equivalent to $7,000,000, were to be subscribed
by the United States, payable in coin, or in stock of the United States bearing interest at 5 per cent. i1er anuurn,
redeemable at the ple~tsure of the government. This stock the bank was to have the right to sen for gold 11nd silvercoin or bullion, but not to sell more than $2,000,000 thereof in any one year. Subscriptions were to be opened
on the first Monday of July, 1816, at one place in each state, and at Washington. Subscriptions by indiviclun.ls,
corporations, or states were to be payable one-fourth in gold or silver coin, and three-fourths in the iilnded debt of·
the United States, or in coin, to be paid in three installments, 30 per cent. at the time of subscribing and tho·
balance in six: and twelve months.
For the management of the affairs of the corporation there were to be twenty-five directors, :five of whom (stockholders) were to be appointed by the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the Senate, noii
more than three of the five to be residents of any one state. No person, a director in the bank or its bra.nches .
should be a director of any other bank. Not more than three·fomths of the directors in office at the time of m~
annual election were to be eligible for re-election, nor was any director to hold his office for more than three yen.r::.1.
out of four, except the director who should be president at the time of an annual election who might always be
reappointed or re-elected. No one but a. stockholder, a. resident citizen of the United States could be a director
.
.
'
l
nor conId a d1rector receive a salary or emoluments as sucb. The total amount of the debts whir.h sa~d corporation.
should at an_y time owe, except for money deposited in bank, was at no time to exceed $35,0oo,ooo, and in case ot:
excess the directors under whose administration it should happen were to be liable.

---··----------------

•American State Pupers, "Finance," vol. iii, p. 19.

355

HISTORY OF THE N.ATION-4.L LO.ANS.

The corporation was not directly or indirectly to deal in anything except bills of exchange, gold or silver bullion,
goods pledged for money lent, or goods which should be the produce of its lands. It was not at liberty to purchase
any public debt whatever, nor to take more than 6 per cent. per annum for its loans or discounts. An office of
discount and deposit was to be established in the District of Columbia whenever a law of the United States should
require; also one in each state in which 2,000 shares of stock should be subscribed or might be held, whenever, at
the request of the legislature of the state, Oongress might by law require it, and the dii'ectors were to have the
right to establish such offi.c(ls of discount and deposit wheresoever they should think fit, iu the United States or the
territories thereof. The Secretary of the Treasury was to be furnished whenever he required it, but not oftener
than once a week, with statements of the condition of the bank.
The notes of the bauk, payable on demand, were to be received in all payments to the United States. No note
was to be issued of less than $5. The bank was not at any time to suspend or refuse payment, in gold or silver, of
any of its notes, bills, or obligations, nor of moneys received on deposit. The penalty for refusing to pay said ·
obligations or deposits in coin was to be 12 per cent. per annum until fully paid and satisfied. No other bank was
to be established by the authority of the United States during the continuance of the corporation except hanks in
the District of Columbia, with an aggregate capital in said District of not exceeding $6,000,000. In consideration
of tbe exclusive privileges conferred on the corporation by the act, it was to pay to tbe United States a bonus of
$1,500,000, in three equal payments, at the expiration of two, three, and four years.
The government subscription of $7,000,000 authorizell by the act was made in stock, bearing an interest of 5
per cent., redeemable at pleasure, while the remainder of tl,te stock of the bank was eagerly taken by private
parties, and the bank went int.o operation January 1, 1817.
In 1837 and 1838 the stock in the bank belonging to the nation was nearly all sold at a heavy premium, and
the proceeds paid into the United States treasury.
As a financial operation on the part of the government it proved a success, resulting as follows:
Received as bonus ...•..................................................•••.•....•..........•...... $1,500, 000 00
Reeeived from dividends........................................................................... 7, 118, 416 29
Received from sale of bank stock ..... :............................................................. 9,424, 750 78

18,043,167 07
Less for subscription .............•.....••••.•....•...••.......••••..•.••••......• $7, 000,000
Less 13 years' interest.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . • • . • . . • • . . • . • • . • • . • • • 4, 550, 000
- - - - 11, 550, 000 00
Showing an excess of receipts over disbursements...... . • • • • . . . . • . . . • . • . . . . • • • • • • . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . .

6, 493, 1G7 07

====

FIVE A.ND SIX PER CENT. LO.A.NS OF 1820.
The report of the committee of ways and means of the House of Representatives, April 14, 1820, showed that
there remained in the, treasury, in available funds, on the 1st of Januaryrireceding, only the sum of $245,665 35.
The total amount of expenditures for the year 1820 already authorized by law was $26,2991164 30, while the
estimated revenue was $22,280,000, leaving a deficit of' $4,019,164 30; or, deducting balance in the treasury of
$24.5,u65 35, the deficit for the year would be $3,773,498 95; which might be partially met by using, if thought
proper, the surplus of the sinking fund, amounting to $2,288,497 29, when the actual deficit would be $1,485,001 66.
They therefore reported a bill to authorize a loan of $2,000,000.*
1.'he committee said that, while they hesitated to recommend a, loan, they believed that powerful reasons existed
against a resort to internal duties and direct taxes in a period of profound tranquillity, the nation having been
accustome(l to a system of taxation (through the duties on imports) which, in its operation, had been paid without
being perceptibly felt. They thought that economy and retrenchment in the expenditures of the government had
'become imperatively necessary, especially under the state of things that then existed, when the extraordinary
depression of commerce, the stagnation of our navigation, the depreciation in the value of our exports and of
property of every description, and the serious embarrassments under which all branches of industry labored, had
compelle(l economy and i'etrenchment in the expenditures of every citizen, and had seriously affected the national
· finances. The excess of expenditures over revenue had, however, arisen principally from the heavy payments made
in redemption of the public debt, continued through a series of yeari;. The original sinking fund of $7 ,300,000 per
annnm, established in 1802, had been increased to $8,000,000 in 1803 aud to $10,000,000 per annum in 1817, with
an additional appropriation for that year of $9,000,000. From this fund $32,085, 750 of the public debt had been
redeemed since tlie 1st of January, 1817, and large outstanding claims, amounting to over $30,000,000, resulting
from ~he h1te :Wwr with Great Britain, had been paid.
T
, on the 4th of l\fay, resolved itself into a committee of the whole on the bill, when a debate arose
·
o so amend it as to authorize a loan of five millions instead of two.
";\nnals of 161,h Cong., 1st sess., p. 18371 et seq.

356

VALUA11ION, TAX_t\TION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

Mr. Trimble, of Kentucky, and others, took the ground that at least $5,000,000 would be require~, ~s the deficit
would be much more than the amount stated by the committee, and to use the surplus of the smkmg fund, as
suggested in the report, would be iL violation of the public faith, that fund being pledged for the redemption of the
national debt.
·
It was said on the other hand tlmt two millions wonhl be sufficient, and that there could be no violation of the
public faith in' using the surplus' of the sinking fund to reduce the expected deficit, as it was lying idle in the
treasury, and would certainly be as well employed in preventing an increase of the pµblic debt as in redeeming it .
after it had been created.
A motion was finally made to make the amount to he raised by loa.n three millions, which prevailed by yeas
65, n~ys 50.*
.
The bill passed the House in this form; but the Senate attempted to amend it by inserting "fl ve millions" iu
lieu of three. To this tlie House, after debate and the appointment of a committee of conference, refused to agree.
It finally passed both 110uses and was approved .May 15, 1820 (3 Statutes, 582). The bill provided that the President
of the United States be authorized to borrow $3,000,000, at a rate of interest not exceeding 5 per cent. per annum,
payable quarter-yearly, the principal to be reimbursable, at the will of the government, at any time after January
1, 1832, or to borrow that sum, at a rate not exceeding 6 per cent., payable quarter-yearly, the principal to be
reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States. The second section gave the Bank of the United States authority
to lend t'he money, or any part thereof, and pmvided that certificates of stock, signed by the register of the treasury
or a commissioner of loans, bearing an interest of 5 per cent. per annum, might be issued and sold, but not below
par. One-eighth of 1 per cent. was to be allowed as commission to agents for procuring subscriptions or making
sales of the stock. 'Ibe surplus of the sinking fund was pledged for the payment of the interest and the
reimbursement of the principal.
Under this bHl $999,999 13 were borrowed, at 5 per cent. interest, reimbursable after January 1, 1832, and
$2,000,000 at 6 per cent., reimbursable at the pleasure of the United States. On the $2,000,000 a premium of 2 per
cent. was obtained. This stock bas all been redeemed.

FIVE PEH CENT. LOAN OF l 821.
The expenditures for the year 1821 were estimated by tlle Secretary of the Treasury, in his reporb of' December
21, 1820, at $21,208,483 03, and the revenue from all sources at $16,550,000, leaving a deficit of $4,G58,4K3 03 to Lo
provided for by taxation or new loaus.t This expected deficit arose from the fact that a portion of the imblic debt
would llecome clue in the year 1821, the principal and interest of which amounted to $5,477,776 7G.
The Secretary said that, in addition to this deficit, the sum of $1,000,000 should be provided for, so that there
might remain a clear balance of that amount in the treasury at the close of the year, in order to insure the prompt
discharge of all demands and place the public credit beyond the reach of accident. He therefore proposed that
provision should be made for raising tlle sum of $7,000,000 to meet all contingencies.
To raise money b;y additional taxation was almost impossible. The country could pay no more, for it was
still suffering from the effects of the great crisis of 1819. The report of a committee of the House of Representatives,
January rn, 1821, gives a vivid picture of the general distress: t
It is not a matte:· of very great consolation to kuow that, at the end of 30 years of its opera.tion, this government :finds its dolit
increased $20,000,000, and its revenue in:ulequuto to its expenditure; the national domain impaired, am1 $20,000,000 of its procootls
expended; $35,000,000 drawn from the people by internal taxation, $341,000,000 by impost, yet the publio troasury cle1iondeut on
loans; in profound peace, and without national calamity, the country embarrassed with debts, and real ostate under rapid depreciation;
the markets of agriculture, the llllrsuits of manufactures drruinished ancl declining; commerce struggling, not to retain tho canyfng of
~he produce of other.nations, but our own. Thero is no national interest which is in ti healthful, thriving condition; tho nation at largo
is not so; the operat10ns of the go>ernment und individuals alike labor under difficulties which are folt by all. " " " The sea, tho
f~r~st, tlw earth yielll their abundance; the labor of man is rewardecl; pestilence, famine, or war commit no ravages; no calamity bas
v1s1tccl the people; peace smiles ou us; plenty blesses tho lanc1: "Whence, then, this burst of universal distress'/

' It was eYident that the only means of providing for the expected deficit was by borrowing the required
amount, and a bill for this purpose wus reported in the House of Representatives Febritary 26 and.became a law
l\Iarch 3, 182! (3 Statutes, 635). The bill as reported authorized a loau of $4,500,000, but this a~o,un,t was changed·
h~· the Senate to $5,000,000, in which the House concurred. .If any debate respecting the bill took place it has not
IJ'.:'.en recorded. 1'he act authorized the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States, Qi·$~m{n,otexceeding
$u,ooo,ooo, at a rate of interest not exceeding 5 per cent., payable quarter-yearly, and reimbur&able, at the will o:f
the government, at any time after January 1, 1835, the money to be applied to defray any of the ~peuses ,vhich
had been or might. lie authorized by law.
;" ,
, ·
, . The ~ank of the Unite~ States w~s to be allowed t? le~d the whole or any part of th~ money, ~~.~· .1;7.ecretm'y
~~:~e T1easury was authorized to raise the money by rnsumg certificates of stock, and selling the sa'if ot under
"Annals of 16th Cong., 1st sess., p. 2204.

t American State Papers, ":Finance," vol. iii, ll· 580, 581.

t Ihid, pp. 594, 595,

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

357

.A.gents were to be employed, if necessary, to obtain subscriptions or sell the stock at a commission of not
exceeding one-eighth of 1 per cent., and $4,000 was appropriated for paying the commissions of these agents and
other expenses incident to the clue execntion of the act.
So much of the surplus of the sinking fnnd as might be required was pledged for the purpose of paying the
interest and for the reimbursement of the principal, and the faith of the United States was also p1edged to establish
sufficient revenues to make np any deficiency in the fund. The money required was very easily obtained under
this act .
.A.s is usually the case in times of great commercial distress., money was abundant in the hands of those who
conl<l not safely invest it. The general paralysis of the industries of the country had stopped the demand for money
for private enterprises, and there remained little chance for safe investments except in national stocks.
Five million dollars was received in cash, most of it very soon after the passage of the bill, and for this
money stock to the amount of $4,735,200 30 was issued, yielding a premium of $204, 703 70, or over 52- per cent.
The redemption of this loan began in the year 1833: and was entirely completed in 1839.
EXCHANGED FIVE PER CENT. STOCK OF 1822.
This stock originated in an abortive attempt to exchange a stock bearing an interest of 5 per cent. for a part
@f the 6 and 7 per cents due in the years 1825 and 1820. The stocks due and redeemable in those years amounted
altogether to the sum of $39,819, 700, a sum far beyond the capacity of the sinking fund to meet, and the Secretary
of the Treasury therefore proposed, in his report of December 10, 1821, to offer, in exchange for $24,000,000 of these
stocks, a stock bearing a lower rate of interest and having a longer time to run. He said: t
A.s the current value of the 5 per cent. stock created during the last aml present years exceeds tliat of the 7 per cent, stock and of the
6 per cent. stocks of 1812 and 1813, it is presumed that tho holders of those stocks will be disposed to exchange them for an equal amount
o~ 5 per cent. stock, redeemable at such periods as to give full operation to the sinking fund as at present constituted. According to this view
of the suliject, $24,000,000 of the stocks, which will be redeemable in the years 1825 and lb'26, may be exchanged for 5 per cent. stock,
redeemable: one-third on the 1st of January, 1831, and one-thir,cl on the same days of 1832 and 1833. This exchange of 6 per cent. stock; if
effectcll on the 1st of January, 1823, will produce an annual reduction of the interest of tho public debt, from that time to the firstmentioned period, of $240,000, and au aggregate saving through the.whole period of $2,160,000. If the whole of the 7 per cent. stock
should be exchanged, tho saving will lie consideralily increased.
·
I

A bill to authorize an exchange of 5 per cent. stocks for those bearing an interest of 6 and 7 per cent. was
reported in the House of Representatives December 31, 1821, and considered in committee of the whole March
15, 1822. It was opposed on the ground that, if passed, it deprived the government of the option of redeeming the
G and 7 per cent. stocks when they became reimbursable, even if able. It was saicl that it was not probable that,
money would be any higher in 1825 than in 1822; that the proper way would be to borrow the money when it

became necessary to redeem the stocks; and that much of the stock to become clue could be redeemed, at the proper
time, by retrenching the expenses of the government and practicing strict economy.
Those who favored the bill said that there was no probability of the government being able to redeem the 6
aml 7 per cent. stocks without resorting to new loans; that the price of money was rising, owing to the revival of
trade and commerce; that by passing the bill a saving of $2,000,000 in interest might be effected; and that it was
necessary to do it at once, as the opportunity would soon pass away.
The bill passed the House early in April by a large majority, passed the Senate with very little debate, ancl
was approved April 20, 1822 (3 Statutes, 603). It ·authorizecl the opening of a subscription to the amount of
$12,000,000 of the 7 per cent. stock and of the 6 per cent. stock of 1812, and for $14,000,000 of 6 per cent. stocks of
the years 1813, 1814, and 1815. For the 6 per cent. stocks of the years 1812, 1813, 1814, and 1815 subscribed and
transferred to the United States, the subscribers were to receive certificates of United States stock, bearing an
interest of u per cent., payable quarterly, reimbursable as follows: one-third at any time after December 31, 1830,
one-third at any time after December 31, 1831, and t:\J.e remainder at any time after December 31, 1832.
For the sums subscribed in the 7 per cent. stock, certificates were to be issued, bearing an interest of 5 per
cent., payable quarterly, redeemable at the pleasure of the United States at any time after December 31, 1833.
The funds pledged by law for the payment of the interest and principal of the stocks which might be subscribed or
exchanged were to remain pledgell to pay the interest and redeem the principal of the stock to be createcl under
this act. The commissioners of the sinking fund were to pay, out of the said fund, the-interest which might become
due on the stock and to purchase the certificates, from time to time, as they purchased other evidences of the public
debt; and so much of the fund as might be necessary was appropriated for the. redemption of the principal, to
continue appropriated until the whole of the stock created was reimbursed. Nothing in the act was to be construed
to abridge or impair the rights of such public creditors as did not choose to Stl,bscribe.
The atte:tnpt to effect an exchange of stocks almost entirely failed, only a very small sum having been subscribed
and exchanged for 5 per cent. stock.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. American State Papers, "Finance,'' vol. iii, p. 684.

358

VALUATION, 'l'AXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

The Secretary of the Treasury, W. H. Crawford, in his report on the state of the :finances for December 23, 1822,
says:
Under the net of the 20th of April Inst, authorizing the exchange of certain portions of the public debt for 5 per cei;it. stock, $56, 704 77
onlv have been exclianged. The h!crensed demand for capital for the prosecution of commercial enterprises durmg tho present year, ancl
tho• rise in the rate of interest consequent on that demand, which was not anticipated at the time the measnre was proposecl, btLvo
prevented its execution.

This stock was all redeemed in 1833.
FOUR AND A HALF PER CENT. LOAN OF 1824.
Under the act ofl\fay 24, 1824 (4 Statutes, 33), the sum of $5,000,000 was borrowed to.provide for the awards
of the commissioners under the treaty with Spain of February 22, 1819. This treaty was negotiaterl to settle tho
title.to a portion of Iiouisiana which was.disputed by Spain, and to extend the sovereignty of ·the United State."!
over the province of East Florida. This province, with West Florida, acquired by Spain by conquest from Great
Britain during the war of the Revolution, had been confirmed in her possession under the treaty of 1783.
Commanding the Gulf of Mexico, fringing our southern border, and inhabited by warlike tribes of Indians, its
possession by Spain had long been a source of trouble to the United States .
.A. long series of border tronbles and local insurrections, extending through many years, appear to lmve
convinced the Spanish government that it would be difficult or impossible to hold Florida, while it is i1robable thn.t
the territory was hardly thought worth the expense of holding. The Spanish minister at Washington, in 17HI,
under instructions from home, agreed to and signed a treaty for the cession of East and West Florida, and fixing
the Sabine as the boundary between Lotpsiana and Mexico. In consideration of the cession of the provinces, tho
United States renouncecl certain claims for spoliations on .American commerce and some 'other claims of American
citizens on Spain, and agreed to }lay the same to an amount not exceeding $5 1000,000; also to make satisfaction for
injuries suffered by Spaniards in Florida by the operations of United States troops. This treaty was signed a.t
Washington February 22, 1819, but not ratified by the king of Spain until October 24, 1820.*
By article 11 the five millions indemnity was to be paid either in cash or in 6 per cent. stock, payable out of
the proceeds of sales of public lands in Florida, and a board of commissioners was to be appointed to receive,
examine, and decide on the amount and validity of these claims.
A bill to authorize the creation of new stock to an amount not exceeding $5,000,000, to provide for the u.war<ls
<lf the commissioner!'; under the treaty with Spain, was reported in the Honse of Representatives ,farnmry 8, 1111<1
considered in committee of the whole May 7, 1824. t It was opposed, on the ground tbat the money was not; yot
<lne, t1Je commissioners not having yet adjudicated the claims, and tllat, as it was doubtful if Florida, descdbecl 1L~
being 11 a land of sand-heaps, mosquitoes, frogs, serpents, and alligators", was worth the money, the Unite<l Stiitos
sllould take the option allowed in the treaty, and, instead of borrowing the money, issue t11e 6 per ceut. stook 1
1myal.>Ie out of the proceeds of Florida lands, in which case, if' Florida lands proved worthless, nothing need be pttid.
Those who favored the bill argued that the money was justly due or would soon become due; that, in whatevor
form the stock was issued, it would have to be paid; and that, ff a bi~l was passed to borrow the money, it conlcl be
had at 42- per cent., while if stockwas issued directly to the claimants, it must, by the terms of the treaty, be (i per
cent. stock.
The bill passecl the House by a large majority the same day. Au attem'pt was made to amend it in the Senate
by providing that the stock should be payable, principal and interest, out of the proceeds of the public lands in
Florida, but the Senate rejected the amendment, and the bill 'passed :finally, and was approved May 24, 1824 (4
Statutes, 33). It enacted that, for the purpose of providing funds for paying the awards of the commissioners nnde:t·
the treat.v, the Secretary of the Treasury shoulU cause to be issued ancl sold to the Bank of the United States or
others, at a sum not less than the par value thereof, certificates of United States stock to an amount not exceeding
$il,OOO,ooo, bearing an interest of not exceeding 42- per cent., the stock to be redeemable at the pleasure of tho
United States, at any time after January 1, 1832. The money received from the issue and ~ale of these certificat-Oa
was to be applied solely to the payment of the awards. The act contained an appropriation of sufilcimit money
to pay tlle ihterest to the encl of the year 1824. Under this act stock to.the amount of $5,000,000 was issued and
sold at par. Its redemption began in 1831, and was entirely completed in 1833.
EXCHANGED FOUR .A.ND .A. H.A.LF PER CENT. STOCK AND FOUR .A.ND A HALF PER OENT.
LO.AN OF M.A.Y 26, 1824.
These. sto~ks were created to fund a portion of the 6 per cents at lower r11tes of interest. The Secretary of the
Treasury, m his report of December 31, 1823, gave a very favorable view of the publie :finances estimating the
1
~venue f~r 1824 at $18,550,000, and, adding Lhe balance in the treasury at the close of 1823 (amounting to
• 8 Statutes, p. 252.

t Annals of 18th Cong., p. 2559, et 8eq.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

359

$6,466,06!) 3?), the availab~e means for the service of the year 1824 were estimated at $25,016,96!) 30, while tlrn
total expenditures were estimated at $15,224,252 89, which would leave a balance in the. treasury Januai·y 1, 1825,
of $9,792,716 41. He said:*
Under existing lnws there is no iirobability that any port.ion of the balance remaining in the treasury on the 1st of January 18.24 or

~f the surplus which 1?ay accrue clnring that ye~r, can be ap~lied to the clischarge of the public debt until the 1st of January, 1s2s, y:t it
1s not deemed comlnc1ve to the general ])rospenty of tho nation that su brge an amount should be drawn from the hands of individuals
.and sufferecl to lie inactive in the vaults of the banks. On the other hand, the high rate of interest of the great amount of debt widch
becomes rcdcemal>lo on tho fat of J ::muary, 1825, renders it inexpedient for the government to aJ?J?ly to other objects any portion of the
means whicli it may possess of making so aclvantagcous a reimQursemcnt. It is believecl, however, that every inconvenience may be
-0bviated, if authority be given for the purchase of the 7 per cent. btock, amounting to $8,610,000, during the year 1824, at such rutes as
may be cousistcut with tho public interest. As it is now certain that the government will possess ample means to redeem tbat stock on
tho 1st of January, 1825, it is prcsUlllccl. that the holders will be willing to ilispose of it during the illterval, at a fair price; and as a
gradual conversion of it into m01rny, at such times ancl in suc11 portions as would be most favorable to its reinvestment, would be most
.nclvantageous to t)lc moneyed transactions of the community, it is presumed that it would lie most acceptable to the holders.
It is, therefore, respectfully J?ro11osecl that the commissioners of th'1 sinking fund he authorized to purchase the 7 per cent. stock
during the ensuing year, at the following rates above the principal sum imrchased:
'
l. For all stock purchased before the 1st of April next, at a rate not exceeding $1 25 on every $100, in addition to the interest due
-011 such stock on that day.
2. For all stock purchased between the 1st of April and the lst of July next, at a rate not exceeding 75 cents on every $100 in
acldition to the interest clue on the last-mentioned clay.
*
"
"
'
Of the $10, 331,000 of 6 J?er cent. stock, redeemable in 1825, about $5, 000, 000 will probably be redeemed in that year; and there will
remain unredeemed, after the aJ?1ilication of all the means at tho disposal of the commissioners of the sinking funcl, about $5,331,000.
This sum, it is believed, may lie readily exchange cl for 5 per cent. stock, redeemable in 1833; and it is respectfully suggesteq. that provision
lie made by law for such nn exchange of so much of the 6 per cent. stock as shall not 1Je redeemed cluring the year 1825.

A bill to ~uthorize the Secretary of the Treasury to exchange certain stocks was first considered in the House
·Of Representatives, in committee of the whole, March 19, 1824. It was opposed as an unnecessary extension of
the loans of the government, throwing upon the i)eople the burden of iuterest for years after the time when it might
be possible to pay the debt. It was said that commerce was increasing and the revenues must increase with it, and
thus the means would be given for paying off the loans as they fell due, and that it was a vain delusion to talk of
saving mone.y by borrowing money and plunging the nation deeper and deeper in debt, unless it was intended to
make the debt perpetual, on the }Jrinciple tbat "a public debt is a public blessing".
By the supporters of the bill it was said, that $63,000,000 of the public debt would become redeemable between
the years 1825 and 1828, and that not the slightest prospect existed of the government beiug able to redeem that
sum as it became due without a resort to new loans, and therefore, as the price of money was low in market, it was
necessary to take advantage of the opportunity of obtaining at least a port.ion of the amount which would be
required, at it low rate of interest; tbat even if the exchange was effected, there would still remain to be paid
$37 ,000,000 in the four years-upwards of $9,000,000 a year-a smn greatly exceecling that portion· <Jf the sinking
fnncl a1)1Jlica1?1e to tho payment of the public debt during those years ; and that therefore it was sound :financial
policy to obtain at least a part of the money, or exchange stock bearing tli low rate of interest for the stocks soon to.
become due, instead of asking at once for a large smn when tbe time for payment had come and the money must
be had.
Tho bill passetl the Honse by a large ma;.iority; passed the Senate apparently without debate; and was approved
J\'fay 26, 182,1 ('.! Stritntm;, 73). It authorized the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States,
on or before April 1, 182G, a, sum not exceeding $5,00o,ooo, at a rate of interest not exceeding 4~ })er cent., and
reimbursable, at the pleasure of the government, at any time after December 31, 1831, the money borrowed to be
applied, together with the money in the treasury, to pay off and discharge such part of the 6 i)er cent. stock of the
yeaT 1812 as might be redeemable ttftei: January 1, 1825.
The Bank of the United States was to be allowed to lend the amount, or any part thereof, ancl the Secretary of
the T,reasury was authorized to raise the money by selling certificates of stock not under par. Nothing contained
in the act was to be construed to impair the rig·hts of such creditors of the U nitecl States as did not choose to subscribe
to the loans.
Under this authority $5,000,000 was borrowed at par. The redemptio11 of this stock began in 1831, and was
entirel,r completed in 1834.
·
Section 3 of the same act proposed a subscription to the amount of $15,000,000 in the 6 per cent. sto?k of the
year 1813, for which purpose books were to be openecl at the treasury and the several loan offices resp~ctively, the
subscription to be effected by a transfer to the United States of' the credits standing to the subscl'lbers on. the
books, and by a surrender of the certificates of stock subscribed. For the whole or any part of the sum so subscribed
and transferred certificates of stock were to be exchanged, bearing an interest of 4~ per cent., and reimbursable at
the pleasure of 'the United States, one-half at any time after December 31, 1832, and the remaining. one-half at any .
time after December. 31, 1833. The same funds, already pledged by law for the payment of the rnterest and the
"Ame:rioan State Papers, "Finance/ vol. iv, p. 377.

360

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

reimbursement of the principal of the oper cent. stocks of 1812 and 1813, were to remain pledged for the pa~n:eut of
th
ncipal and interest of the stocks to be created under this act, and it was made the <h~ty of the coi:im1ss10ners
ofet~~ sinking fund to cause to be applied, annually, such sums as might be necessary to discharge ,the mterest..
u mler this section the sum of $4,454, 727 95 was subscribed in 6 per cent. stock, and exchanged for stock .bear~ng
an interest of 4-g. per cent. Redemption of this exchanged stock began in 1833, and was nearly complete(l m 183~,
but a small amount remained outstanding, not having been presented for payment when called, until 18431 when it
was entirely redeemed.
EXCHANGED FOUR AND .A. HALF PER OENT. STOCK OF 1825.
The committee of ways and means of the House of Representatives, to whom was referred the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury on the state of the finances, dated December 31, 1824, reported, J ami,ary 12, 1825, as follows :*
In considering so much of the Secretary's report as relates to the public debt of the United States, it appears that on tho 1st c:ay of
January, 1826, there will be reileem:ible, of the G per cent. stoo~ of 1813, $19,000;000, and th:it the or~nary revenues of the yoar will not
be adequate to the reimbursement of more than $7,000,000, leaving an excess of :j;il2,000,000 to be prov1dod for.
The whole amount of the public debt, including the loan of $5,000,000, at 41 per cent., authorized by t~e act of the ~0th of l\fay fo1:1t,
is found to be $88,545,003 38. Of this sum $2,500,000 of the last-mentioned loan, not having been actuu,lly p:.ud to the Umted St1Ltes, couhl
not be regularly included in the estimate of the Secretary of the Treasury at the close of the last year, but must, nevertheloas, be
considered as part of the debt, with a view to future years.
This sum of$88,545,003 3B is redeemable as follows:
In 1825 . ___ •...•••...••....•••..•.•.... ---· ·- ....•..•••..•••••.•• _., ...... $7, 654, 570 ~3 of 6 per cents.
In 1826 ...•••. __ .•... ___ . ______ . ·---- ..•.••....••.•.••••..•••••••• --- ..••.. HI, 002, 356 62 of() per cents of 1813.
In 1827 .. _••.... ___ ··-- ..•.•.•..••••....••....••.. ----- ••••..•••.••••...... 13, 001, 437 63 of G per cents of 1814.
In1828 .................................................................... 9,490,099 10 of611ercents.
In1831 ........................................... -........................
18,90159 of5perconts.
In 1832 ..•..•• ------- ·--· .•..••.••••....•...•••••••.••••• ···--- .• . •• . •• • .. . 5, 000, 000 00 of 4t por cents.
In 1832 ····-········· .............................. ·-----··············: ••• 1,018,900 72 of5 per conts.
In 1833 •....••••• ····-· ...••. ...... ••• . .... .... .. •••• •••••. .... .... •... .•.. 6, 654, 153 72 of 4t per cents.
In 1833 ...................................... ---- ••. . • • ........ •• .• • ... .•. .
18, 901 59 of 5 per cents.
In 1834 . --···· .• •• .... .... ... . ...... .... .... ...... .. . . .• • ••. ••.. ••• • ••• . .... 1, 654, 153 'i'3 of 4t per cents.
In1835 ··--·········--·····--···---·-·············--·----·-·············--- 4,735,296 30 of5percents.
At pleasure ••..•........ ~ .•.... ---- ••••...•...•.••.••••.... __ .. •• • • • . .• • •• . 7, 000, 000 00 of 5 per cents.
At iilensnre ... ___ . __ •...•.••... -- ..........•••............ ·-· •.••..•••....• 13, 296, 231 45 of 3 1ier cents.
By this statement it appears that in the years 1829 a~d 1830 no part of the p11blic debt will be reimb~sable, oxcepting $7,000,000
subscription to the Bank of the United States and the 3 per cents.; but, as these bear a less interest than that iiortion of tho 0 per con ts
of1813, redeemable on the 1st of January, 1826, and which cannot, for the want of means, be reimbursed beforo the years 1820 and 1830, it
is believed to be advisable to provide for that portion by a new stock at a reduced rate of interest, a.ml payable at those periotls.
The committee, therefore, recommend a new loan or an exchange to the :imount of$1210001000, at a rate ofiuterest not oxoeerJing 4v
per cent., reimbursable, in equal portions, in the years 1829 and 1830, and for that purpose report a bill.

Tile debates on this bill have :r,10t been recorded. The bill was approved l\farch 3, 1825 (4 Statutes, 129). II;
. authorjzed the President to borrow, on the credit of the United Strttes, a sum not exceeding $12,000,000, at not
exceeding 4~ per cent. interest, $0;000,000 of the principal to be reimbursable, at the pleasnre of the govormnont,.
at any time after December 31, 1827, and $6,000,000 at any time after December 31, 1828, the money borrowed to be
applied to redeeming such part of the 6 per cent. stock of 1813 as was reimbursable after January 1, 1826. Tho
Bank ef the United States was to be permitted to lend the ·sum, or any part thereof, and the Secretary of the
Treasnry was authorized to raise the money by selling certificates of stoQk, not under par.
Section 3 of the same act authorized a subscription to the amount of $12,000,000 of the 6 per cent. stock of
1813, all such subscriptions to be counted as a part of the $12,000,000 authorized, by the net, to be bor1·owed.
For the whole or any part of the sum subscribed in money or 6 per cents, certificates of stock wore to be issued,
at not exceeding 42- per cent. interest, payable quarterly, and reimbursable as provided for in the fu:st section.
Tho sarno fnnds, already pledged by law for the payment of the interest and the reimblU'Sement of the principal
of the stock which might be redeemed or exchanged, were to remain pledged for payment of the interest and the
reimbursement of the principal of the stock created under this act. Nothing in the act was to be construed to alter
or impair the rights of public creditors who might not choose to subscribe to the loan.
The low rate of interest offered made this loan a failure, so far as borrowing money was concerned, aml the
amount of stock exchanged under the act was comparatively small, amounting to $1,539,336 16.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his report of December 22, 1825, says:
Proper measures were taken to execute this act, but they have prevailed only to a limited extent. The operation of exclrnugo, which
was :first resorted to, took effect to the amount of$1,539,336 16, and this sum, divided into equal parts, forms the two sums that now sfaml
in the general table of the debt as redeemable in the years 1829 and 1830, whilst they have also served to diminish by so much the 6 pol'
cent. stock of 1813. Proposals for u, loan for the residue of the sum wanted were next issued, but no offers were received. Tllo causoa of
tbo fai:n;e, ~.t mny be pres~med, were: the lo~ rate of interest and short periods of redemption held out by the act, in conjunction with
an activity m the commercial and manufaeturrng operations of the country a:tforiling higher inducements to the investment of capital.

__ _!be reuemption of this stock began in the year 1831, and was entirely completed in 18S4.
".A.merica.n State Papers, "Finance," vol. v, p. 174.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

361

TREASURY NOTES OF 1837.

In the year 1836 the United States was, for the :first time in the history of the country, 11ractically out of uebt.
The Secretary of the Treasnry, in his report to Congress, dated December 8, 1835,* estimated the amount of the
public debt still outstanding at about $328,582 10, u,nd this remained unpaid solely because payment had not been
Jemanded, ample fnnds to meet it having been deposited with the United States Bank and with the commissioners
of loans. The outstanding debt consisted mainly of unclaimed interest and diviclencls, of claims for services an<I
supplies during the Hevolution, and of old treasury notes, and it is supposed that payment of these had not been
asked for solely because the evidences of the debt had been lost or destroyed. At the same time the estimates of
the receipts and expenditures showed the probabilit.y of a surplus of at least $14,000,000 in the treasury at the
elose of the year 1~36, and this estimate was, as events showed, far below the truth. In this favorable state of the
public finances, Congress adopfod the extraordimtry resolution of depositing tlle surplus over $5,000,000 with the
several States, and under the act of June 23, 1836,-r surplus revenue, amounting to $28,101,644 91 were so deposited.
In 1837, however, the state of the country had changed. The "flush" times of 1835 and 1836 had been
succeeded by extraordinary depression and panic. In l\fay most of the banks suspended specie payments. The
sales of public lands and the duties on the large importations of foreign goods, which had helped to swell the
balance in the treasury to over $42,000,000, had fallen off enormously. Even on the goods that were imported it
was difficult to collect the duties, for the law required them to be paid in specie, .and specie was hard to obta.in.
It had become impossible not ·only to pay the fourth installment of the surplus at the end of 1836 to the several
States, but even to meet the current expenses of the government from the ordinary revenues.
The Secretary of the Treasury therefore suggested that contingent authority be given the President to cause
the issue of treasury notes bearing an interest of 6 per cent. The bill to authorize the issue of not exceeding.
$12,000,000 was introduced in the House of Representatives September 13, and debated at length in both the House
and Senate. It was supported on the ground that the issue of treasury notes was absolutely necessary, there being
already a deficit of $2,000,000, likely, in the condition of the country at that time, to increase, and that so large an
amount a<.ltled to the circulating medium would tend to alleviate the distress prevailing; while it was opposed by
those who thought greater economy in expenditures would relieve the treasury, and by others who denounced it as.
an attempt "to start a treasury bank". The bill passed the House by a small majority, while in the Senate there
were but six votes against it. It was approved October 12, 1837 (5 Statutes, 201). It authorized the Preside!J.t to
cause the issue of treasury notes in such sums as the exigencies of the government might require, not exceeding in:
the whole $10,000,000, of' denominations not l~ss than $50, redeemable one year after date, bearing interest :fi·om their
respective dates for the term of one year at rates to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, but not to exceed &
per cent. They were to be issued, in· payment of debts due by the U~ited States, to such public creditors or other
persons as chose to receive them in payment at their par value; were to be transferable by delivery and assignment
inclorsed on them by the person to whom theJ' had been made payable, and were to be received in payment of all
duties and taxes laid by the United States, of all public lands sold by the said authority, and of all debts due to
the United States, credit to be given for the interest due on the notes u,t the time of payment. The Secretary of
the Treasury was authorized to borrow, not below par, such sums as the Presid~nt might deem expedient, on thecredit of the notes. Under this act the fUll amount authorized, $10,000,000, was issued.
TREJ.ASURY NOTES OF 1838.

The condition of the country and of the public .finances was no more favorable at the close of the year 1837
than at its beginning. There was in the treasury January 1, 1838, an apparent balance of over $34,000,000, but
of this amount the largest portion was unavailable. It consisted of the amount deposited with the several States,.
$28,101,644 91; of money belonging to the government deposited with suspended or insolvent banks i of amounts
duo from merchants on bonds given for duties on imports, difficult or impossible to collect; and of various other
items; aggregating, altogether, so large an amount that the Secretary of the Treasury estimated· the availablebalance at the close of the year at but $1,118,393.:j:
It is probable tllis estimate was too ln;rge, as the President informed Oongress, in May, 1838, that the availablo
means in the treasury were only $216,000. Demands to a large amount were suspended in the departments, waiting.
payment from means yet to be provided by Congress, and the resources on hand could carry the government
but a few days longer.§ The dues to the government being largely paid in the treasury notes of 1837, which the
department was forbidden to reissue, the revenue was practically almost not.hing, and it became absolutely necessary
to provide additional means. A bill to allow the issue of treasury notes was introduced in the House March 23,
passed both House and Senate after a long debate, in which the same objections were urged as those to the bill of
October 12 1837 and was approved May 21, 1838 (5 Statutes, 228). It was, when introduceu, entitled ''A bill
supplement~ry to' the act entitled an act to authorize the issue of treasury notes", and it was stated that no
~Congressional Globo, 1st ~<'SS. 24th Cong., 11. 12.

t 5 Statutes, p. G5, section 13.

t Cong. Globe, 2d sess. 25th Cong., p. 10.
~Cong. Globe, 2d sess. 25tb Cong., Appendix, Jl· j31.

VALUA'I'IOK, TAXA'J1ION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.
additional issue was intended but onlJ' that the old notes paid in should be replaced by new ones. Tlle title'.
lwwever, was cliauged before its passage to "An act authorizing the issuing of treasury notes to meet the current
expenses of the government."
·
.
The act authorized the Secretary of the Treasury, with the approbation of: ~he r:es~de~t, to cause tr?a~ury
notes to be issued, according to the provisions of, and subject to, all the cond1.1:10ns, lu~ntlttlons, and r~str1ct10ns
-0ontained in the act of October 12, 1837, in place of such notes as had been or nnght be issuetl n~der smd :wt and
afterward paid into the treasury and canceled. Under this act the sum of $5: 709,810 01 was rnsued. The odd
sums l'epresent the interest accrued.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1839.
The power to issue and reissue treasury notes under the acts of October. 12, 1837, and Mtty 21, 1838, expired
on December 31 1838. The act of March 2, 1830 (5 Statutes, 323), extended this time to the 30th day of Juno

next ensuinrr an~l was passed at the instance of the Secretary of the Treasury, who informed the House that it
would be i;~ossible to meet the demands upon the treasury without it. Under this act the sum of $3,857,270 21
was issued.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1840.

The President of the United States informed Congress, by a special message dated February 17, 1840, that,
although the resources of the treasury for the whole year would probably be equal to the expenditures, yet the
department might, notwithstanding, be unable to meet the claims upon it when they fell due, because the larger
part of the charges upon the treasury, including the payment of pensions and the redemption of. treasury notes 1
fell due in the early part of the year, while the resources on which it might otherwise rely would mostly be
una\·ailable until the last half of the year, and a portion1 bei.ng debts due from banks, might not be punctually paid.
To remedy this inconvenience, the act of March 31, 1840 (5 Statutes, 370), was passed, although strenuousls
opposed as unconstitutional and unnecessary, the House of Representatives being fa session at one time for
twenty.five hours on the bill.*
It renewed the provisions of the act of October 12, 1837, except as to the amount of notes and the time in
which they might be issued, and authorized the issue of treasury notes in lieu of those which had been or might;
be redeemed, but not to exceed, in the amount of notes outstanding at any one time, the sum of $5,000,000, to he
redeemed sooner than one year if the means of the treasury would permit, by giving sixty days' notice of those
notes which the department was ready to redeem, no interest to be allowed thereon after the expiration of the sixty
days; the act t-0 continue in force one year and no longer. Under this act the sum of $7,114,251 31 was issti.ed.

TREASURY NOTES OF 1841.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his report on the finances dated December 7, 1840, estimated that, at the
close of the year 1841, there would remain in the treasury an available balance of but $824,273, and that even this
small balance might entirely disappear, and an actual deficit of several millions be found, under tho operu,tions of
the compromise tariff act of 1833, which was rapidly lowerfag the amount of customs-dntiQs levied, aided by
fluctuations in the amount of goods imported, which had fallen off during the year 1840 nearly sixty millions of
dollars.
To ward off the danger of this possible deficit the act of February 15, 1841 (5 Sta.tutes, 411), was passed. It·
authorized the President to cause treasury notes to be issued for such sums as the exigencies of the government
might require, but not exceeding the sum of $5,0001000 of this emission, outstanding at mw one time to be reimbursctl
in the last quarters of the year, if the condition of the treasury would permit, tho notes to be issued uncler the limitations
and provisions o: the aet of October 12, 1837, as modified by the act of March 31, 1840; and if, on the 4th du.y of
March next ensumg, the treasury notes outstanding, issued under former laws, added to the amount of.notes issued
m1der this act, should exceed the sum of $5,000,000, then the President was authorized to issue such further sums
as would make the whole amount of notes issued under this act and applicable to payments after March 3 1841 tho
full sum of $5,000,000. Under this act notes to the amount of $71529,062 75 were issued.
'
'
LOAN OF 1841.
The President of the United States, in his message to Congress at its extra session in June 1841 estimated

th~ probable deficit. in the treasury at the close of the year at $11,4061132 98,t while the Secretar; of the Treasury

estimated the deficien~y on the 1st of September at $51251,388 30, and informed Congress that during the previous
four y~rs the expenditure had exceeded the revenue by $31,310,014 20.:j: The issue of treasury notes, begun under
•Cong. Globe, 1st sess. 26th Cong., p. 285, et seq.

t Cong. Globe, 1st sess. 27th Con!l"., p. 6.

*Ibid., p. 19.

HISTORY O:E' rrHE NATIONAL LOANS.

3G3

l?resident Van nurcn'ti a<lministration aml continued for fonr years, bad been but a mere temporary expedient to
}Jostpone, for a few mont lrn, tlle payment of a constantly accumulating debt. The anly remedy for these continually
l:"ecurring deficits was by ri loan redeemable at a time sufficieut1~· distant to allow the public finnuces, aided by
:returning pros1)erit;r among the people, a cllance for recovery.
.A. bill to borrow 812,000,000, reueemable after eigllt years, was introduced in the House Juno 14.1 aml dcbn.ted
<luring many successive clays. It was opposed by those who declared themselves averse to creating a national
-debt, by those who profcssc11 to sec in it tt scheme for starting a national bank, and by those who preferred tlie
issue of treasury notes to obtaining a loan. It was advocated by members who said that it was not creating a debt,
but funding one whicll already existed, entailed on the country by an administration which had just gone out of
powe-r, arnl that it was the more man1y course to openly ask a loan, payable at some distant day, rather than to
continue the issue ·of notes which must return to the treasury in a few weeks or months to cause another deficit.
The act was approved ,Tnly 21, 1841 (5 Statutes, 438). It authorized the President to borrow, on the credit of
the United States, at any time within one year, a sum not exceeding $12,ooo,ooo, at a rate of interest not exceeding
-0 per cent., payable quarterly or semi-annually, tlle loau to be. reimbursable either at the will of the Secretary of the .
·~easury after six months' notice, or at any time after three years from January 1, 1842. The money borrowed was
to be applied to the redemption of outstanding treasury notes and to defray the public expenses. The Secretary
-was authorized l;o purcllase, at any time before the time named for the redemption of the stock, such portions thereof
.as the funds of the government might admit of, and any surplus in the treasury was appropriated therefor. The
faith of the United States was p1edgetl for tlle punctual payment of the principal and interest. Under this act
.stock to the amount of $5,672,076 8~ was issued.
TREASURY NOTES OF JANUARY, 1842.
The loan proposed by the act of July 21,.1841 (5 Statutes, 438), owing to the short period which was to elapse
be.fore it became redeemablei does not appear to have met with much favor from those who had money to lend.
Up to December 20, 1841, the amount received, of the $12,000,000 asked for, was only $5,532,726 88, while the
-estimated deficiency on January 1, 1842, was $627,557 90, and the estimated excess of expenditures over re-venue
for the year 1842 was $14,218,570 68. ln this emergency the Secretary recommended an extension of tlle time
-within which the residue of the loan, not yet taken, sllould be redeemable, the reissue of the treasury notes
lleretofore authorizecl by law, and an increase of the duties on certain classes of imports.* .A. "bill to allow the issue
and reissue of treasury notes was introduced in the House January 5, 1842, and met witll much opposition, on the
·old grounds of the unconstitutionality of bills of credit, of the inexpediency of adding to the paper money of the
,country, and on the plea that economy would enable the government to meet its expenses without causing a
·deficit in the treasnry. Its supporters denied that tlle measure was unconstitutional, and admitted that the best
way to provide for the deficiency wonld be by obtaining a loan, but asserted that if a loan bill was passed, the
money could not be obtained in this country and that it would be necessary to send the bonds to Europe for sale,
which would consume much time, while the needs of the treasury "'ere urgent. It finally passed both houses, and
was approved January 31, 1842 (5 Statutes, 469).
The act authorized the President to cause tlle issue of treasury notes for such sums as the exigencies of the
go'\ernment migllt require, the notes when redeemed to be reissued, but not exceeding the sum of $5,ooo,ooo of this
~mission to be outstanding at any one time, the notes to be issued under the p:i;ovisions and limitations contained
in the act of October 12, 1837, except that tlle authority gi'Ven to issue treasury notes was to expire at tlle end of
-0ne year from tlle passage of the act. Under this act the sum of $7,959,904 83 was issued.
LOA.N OF 1842.
This loan was obtained under the act of July 21, 1841, the provisions of which were extended by the act of
April 15, 1842 (5 Statutes, 473). The bill was passed, like that for the issue of the treasury notes of January, 1?42, to
prevent the threatened deficiency in the treasury mentioned in the notes on that act. It was manifest that the
power to keep outstanding $5,000,000 in treasury notes could not make up a deficiency of over· $14,000,ooo, hence
tho necessity for this bill. It was introduced in the House December 23, 1841, and passecl after long debate, in
which the responsibility for the condition of the finances was charged by each party on the other. Tlle act extended
the time limited by the first section of the act of July 21, 1841, to the time of one ;year from the passage of this act,
.aud provided that so much of the loan as was obtained after its passage should he reimbursable as should be agreed
upon at the time of issuing the stock, not to exceed twenty years from the 1st day of Janua~, 1843. The Secretary
.of .tlie Treasury was authorized to dispose of the stock below par, if its par value could not be obtained, but. not
until after the loan bad been duly advertised and proposfils for subscription invited. The President was also
authorized to borrow an additional sum of $5,000,000, if the exigencies of the gove:unment should require tlle same,
under the same provisions and limitations. Under this act stoek was issued amounting to $8,343,886 03 for which
$8,301,468 23 was received in cash.
~ Beport on tho Finances, December 20, 1841.

364

VALUA'rION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.
TREASURY NOTES OF AUGUST, 1842.

The act of July 21 1841 authorizing a loan of not exceec\ing $12,000,000, provided, that no stock be sold below
par, and such was the 'unsettled state of the money market, at that period, that the. secr~tary fo?n~ it pos~ible ~<>
i·ealize but a small portion of the amount needed to meet the existing emergency, while this restriction remai~ed m
force. It was attempted to amend this, by the act of April 15, 1842, allowing the Secretary of the Treasury, if tho
stock could not be sold at par, to dispose of it at lower prices, and also extending the time for redemption to not·
more than twenty years from January 1, 1843, but it was still found impossible to obtain par for the sto?k. To
prevent its sacrifice a bill was introduced in the House to allow the issue of treasury notes when. the remamder of
the :stock could not he sold below par. It was stated in debate, by the chairman of the committee of ways and
means, who introduced the bill, that the immediate liabilities of the government were $3,875,000, and to meet these
demands not one dollar was available, and that the stock must either "be sacrificed to the Shylocks of the country",
or some other means mnst be given the Secretary of the Treasury to meet these liabilities.* The bill does not
ap1)ear to have met with much opposition. It was approved August 31, 1842 (5 Statutes, 581.)
.
It provided that no stock authorized by the act of July 21, 1841, and by the act amendatory of the same, approvell
.April 15, 1842, should thereafter be sold at less than par; and in case the stock could not be sold at or above par,.
and the exigencies of the public service should require, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to issue, in lieu
thereof, treasury notes to the amount of not more than $6,000,000, under the provisions and limitations containecl
in the acts of October 12, 1837, and March 31, 1840. The notes when redeemed might be reissued, or new notes.
issued in their stead, but none were to be issued after April 15, 1843, and the amount outstanding at any one time·
was not to exceed $6,000,000. Under this act notes to the amount of $3,025,554 89 were issued. ·
TREASURY NOTES OF 1843.
These notes were simply issues of new notes in place of such as had been issued under previous acts o:f
Congress, and which had been or might be redeemed at the treasury, or received i~ payment of dues. The
necesshy for their issue was in the fact that the"estimated revenues for the year were but little in excess of the current
expenses. The national debt in March, 1843, was said to be $27,409,338, of which $11,068,977 fell due during the
year and might be presented for payment.t Under these circumstances it became necessary either to obtain 11 new
loan, to increase the taxes, always an unpopular expedient, or to issue new treasury notes, as had been done at each
session for the past six years. The course was adopted of giving authority both to obtain a new loan ancl to issue
treasury notes; though this latter was characterized in debate as a mere temporary expedient to enable the government to get along from day to day and to maintain its credit without repudiation.:j: The act was approved March 3,
1843 (5 Statutes, 614). It provided that when any outstanding treasury notes issued under previous acts of
Congress should, after the passage of this act, be redeemed at any time before July 1, 1844, the Secretary of the
Treasury, shoukl the public service require it, might cause other notes, to the same amount, to be issued in their
stead, under the limitations and provisions of the acts under which the notes were originally issued. It authorized
the pa3·ment of interest on notes issued under this act after maturity, and also on those issued under the act of
August 31, 1842. Under this act notes to the amount of $1,806,950 were issued.
. LOAN OF 1843.
This loan was obtained under the act authorizing the issue of treasury notes, approved March 3, 1843 (5 Statutes,
614), and for the same purpose. The third section of the act authorized the Presideni,, if, in his opinion, it should:
be for the interest of the United States so to do, to cause to be redeemed and canceled such of the notes then
outstanding as they became due, by the issue of stock of the United States, under the limitations and provisions of the
act of .April 15, 1842, except that no commissions were to be aUowed to agents, and the stock should be redeemable
at a llerfod not later than ten years from the issue thereof. Under this act stock to the amount of $7,004,231 35,
was issued, most of which was sold at a small premium.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1846.
War with Mexico was declared May 13, 1846. On the 15th of June the Secretary of the Treasury informed.
Congress t1rnt if the war should continue until July 1, 1847, there would be a deficiency in the trea~mry of
$12,587,000. To prevent this threatened deficiency, by the issue of treasury notes, a bill was introduced iu tl1e
House of Representatives Jilly 6, 1846, passed both houses without much debate and wa.s approved .July 22 1846
(9 Statutes, 39). It authorized the President to cause treasury notes to be issu~d for such sums as the exig~~cies
of th~ government might require, and, in place of sueh notes as might be redeemed, to cause others to be issued·
?ut the amount of this emission outstanding at any one time was not to exceed $10,000,000. The notes were to b~
rnsued under the limitations and provisions of the act of October 12 1837 except that the authorit:l given was to.
. at t he encl of one year from the passage of the act. Under this
' act' the sum of $7,687,800 was• issued.
expire
"C-0ng. Globe, 2d sess. 27th Cong-.. p. 964.

t Cong. Glolie, 3d srss. 27th Cong., Appendix, p.186.

i Cong. Globe, 3d sess, 27th Cong., p. 318.

l

HISTORY OF 1.'HE NATIONA:L LOANS.

365

LOAN OF 184.G.
The second se~tion of the act of July 22, 184.G (D Statutes, 40), authorizecl the President, if, in hlB opinion, it
should be for the mterest of the U.nited States so to do, instead of issuing the whole amount of treasury notes
authorized by the first section, to borrow, on the credit of the United States, such a sum as he might deem proper
but not exceeding, together with the treasury notes issued, the sum of $10,000,000. The stock was to be issued
under the limitations and provisions of the act of A1>ril 15, 1842, and to be redeemable at a period not exceeding ten
ycu,rs from the date of issue. No commissions were to be paid to agents. Under this act the sum of $4 909140 45
1
'
'
was .lSSUel.
MEXICAN IXDEIIINITY STOCK.
The peculin,r circumstances which gave rise to the issue of this stock are wortlly of note, as resulting from an
ineffectual attempt to collect the money due American citizens on account of claims against the government of
Mexico. By the terms of the convention of January 30, 18!3, between the United States aml the Mexican republic,
it was provided that on the 30th day of Avril, 184:3, the Mexican government should pay all the interest which might
then be due on the awards in favor of claimants under the convention of the 11th of April, 1839. The principal
.of the said awards, and the interest accruing thereon, to be paid in :five years, in equal installments every three
months, to commence April 30, 1843. These payments were to be made in the city of I\Iexico, to such person as the
United States might authorize to receive them, in gold or silver money.* In accordance with these sti1mlations, an
a.gent was duly appointed for the collection of the several installments as they respectively came due, and the
:Secretary of State was informed, by an official communication from the United States minister at the city of 1Iexico,
·elated September 2,1, 1814, that the installments whfoh fell due on the preceding 30th of April and 30th of July
were paid, to the authorized agent appointed to receive and transmit the same, on the 27th of August of that year,
.and it was so reported to Congress. Upon examination into the facts, however, it was found that no money had
been received, and au investigation was ordered, resulting in the development of a singular transaction on the part
.of the o.gent designated to receive the money from the Mexican authorities. It appears from the correspondence
1·el:1tive to this affair that, for ~he avowed purpose of liquidating these claims, Santa .Aiia, the head of the Mexican
gov-ernment, in May, 1843, decreed the collection of a forced loan, to be distributed in certain proportions through
the various departments of the Mexim1n republic, ancl paid at l)eriods cotresponcling to tllose stipulated by the
convention. This measure, essentially unpopular, was hnperfectlj enforced, while the temptation to a misapplication
-Of the fnntls collected, amidst the difficulties by which Santa Aila was surrounded, was very great. Under these
circumstances the Mexican government was unable to pa.y the illstallment which became due in April, 1844; an(l
in J' n1y of the same year, when another installment beca.me due, the incapacity of the government hall become still
clearer. The arrears then clue and payable amountell to $274,GG4 G7. The applications of the agent of the United
States at the Mexic11n tre11sury for payment of these installments were evaded or disregarded, and he was informed
tha.t there was no money in the treasury applicable thereto. Despairing of obtaining any direct lmyment, he made
.an arrangement with an English firm there, of high sta.nding, then believecl to be successful1y 11rosccuting a claim
of considerable amount, by which they assumed the collection of the said installments, in addition to their own .
.clairu, all(l agreed to pay him the pro1>ortionate share of such collections, gradually, as received by them from the
Mexican government. In pursuance of this arrangement, orders, to the amount of $274,664 G7, on the Yarious
departments, were given in favor of the agent of the United States, by the Mexican goYernment, and a receipt for
the amount given by lliUl as if it hacl been r>aid in money. These orders were handed over by him to tlle English
firm, with whom h.e had made the arrangement for the collection of the installments.+ Nothing was realized from
these orders, but the matter of the indernuity was afterward disposed of by article 13 of the treaty of Guadalu1)e
Hidn,lgo, February 2, 1848, which reads as follows: f
The United States engage, moreover, to 11Ssmne 1md pay to the claimants all the amounts now due them, and those hereafter to
become due by reason of the claims already liquidated an<l decided against the Mexican republic, under the conventions between the two
republics severally conclm1ed on the 11th day of April, lS~G. and on the 30th day of January, 1843; so tlrnt the Mexican :republic shall be
.absolutely exmnpt, for the future, from all expense whatever on account of the said claims.

In 184G, the Unitell States being at war with Mexico, a clause was inserted in the first section of the civil and
diplomatic approp;riation act of August 10 (D Statutes, 04), providing: "For paying the r>rincipal and interest of the
fourth and fifth installments of the Mexican indemnities due in April and July, in the year 1844, the sum of $320,000;
Provided, The claimants each for himself, shall relinquish to the United States his right to said installments;
Provided further That e~ch of the claimants shall agree to take in payment the scrip of a stock bearing interest
.
at five per cent.,' payable in fi>e years." Under .the authority thus granted, fi>e i1er cent. stock·, amountmg
to
'$303,573 fl2, was issued.
·
* 8 Statutes, p. ~78.

t Ex. Doc. II. R., lat seas. 29th Cong., No. 133.

t 9 Sta tut Cl!, p. 033.

366

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEB~L1EDNESS.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1847.

The estimate of the Secretary of the Treasury, referred to in the remarks on "Treasury notes of 1846", that
there would be, on the 1st of ,July, 1847, if the war with Mexico should continue and no new sources of revenue
were supplied, a deficit of bnt $12,587,000, proved fallacious.
.
Under the act of July 22, 1846, a sum larger th.an his estimate of the amount needed to prevent a deficit was
obtained; yet, in his annual report, dated December u, 18!0, the Secretu,ry was obliged to inform Congress that
there would still be a probable deficit of $4,779,042 01. In January, 1847, he appears to have informed the
chairman of the committee of ways and means that the treasury was nearly empty, and that there was immediate
necessity for authority to is1:me more treasury notes or to obtain a new loan. A bill authorizing the issue of ne\V
treasury notes, or a loan to the amount of $23,000,000, was introduced in the House of Hepresentatives January 1.1,
1847, and passed both houses after an extended debate, in which the origin a,nd conduct of the war with Mexico were
discussed, and various propositions were brought foqvard to so amend the tariff on foreign goods imported as to
increase the revenue, rmcl especially to lay a heavy duty on tea and coffee .. The act was approved January 28, 184:7
(0 Statutes, 118). It authorized the President to ca1u;e treai:;nry notes to be issued fol' such sums as the exigencies
of the government might require, but iiot exceeding, in the whole amount issuecl, tlle sum of $23,000,000, and no
uote to be of a less denomination than fifty dollars. The notes were to bear such interest, from tfate of il:lsuo
until redeemed, as shonl<l be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and were reimlmrsable at one and two yer1rs
after elute. The Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to borrow money on the credit of the notes, but no
llotes wPre to be plellged, h;ypothecate<l, or sold, at less than their par ntlue, with accumnfatecl interest. They
were to be imicl to such public creditors as chose to receiYe them at par, and were made receiv~tble for all duties,
taxes, and debts due the United States. The Secretary was authorized to purchase tliese notes at any time, but
only at par for the principal and accrued interest. \iVben any of the notes authorized by tho act were rccleemcd 7
other notes might 1Je issued in their stead, but the amount of said notes outstm1ding n,t any time, together with tho
stock authorized by tho same act, was not to exceed $23,000:000. Tlle principal of t4e notes could be fonded
at any time in stock bearing G per cent. interest, redeemable at any time after December 31, 1867, and this
privilege was extendi;d to the~ holders of any treasury notes issued. under previous acts. Tho authority g·iven by
the act of July 22, 184G, to issue treasury notes was extended, by the fifteenth section, to the period fixed by. this
act, on the same terms and conclitions, but the issue under this section was not to exceed $5,000,000. Under this
act notes to the amount of $26,1221100 were issued.
LOAN OF 1847.
The act of January 28, 1847 (9 Statutes, 118), which authorized the issue of $23 1000,000 in treasury notes, also
authorized the President (see sec. 16), if; in his opinion, it should be for the interest of the United States so to
do, instead of issuing the whole amount of treasury notes, to borrow, on the credit of the United States, such
amount as he might deem proper, and to issue therefor stock, bearing interest u,t not exceeding 6 per cent.,
redeemable after December I, 1867; but the amount so borrowed, together with the treasury notes issued under
~he same act, was ~ot to exceed the sum of $23,000,000. Under this act stock to the amonnt of $28,230,:350 was
lssued, most of which sold 'at a small premium. The apparent overissue is accounted for by the authority given
under t.he act to fund treasury notes in the same stock.
BOUNTY-LAND SCRIP .
. The ac~ of February 11, 1847 (9 Statutes, 125, section 9), gu,ve to each non-commissioned officer, musician, or
~mvate, enhs:etl or regularly mustered in the service for not less than twelve months, and who had actually served
111
the war with M~xico and_ rece~vecl an honorable discharge, a warrant for 160 acres of land, or a treasury scrip for
$100. If the ~old1er was killed m battle, or died of wounds or sickness incurred in the course of his service the
warrant or scrip was to be issued to llis heirs. Each soldier enlisted for less than twelve months and who' had
actually served iu the war to the end of his term or until he was honorably discharged was to receiv~ a warrant for
40 acres of land, or a treasury scrip for $25, to be issued to his heirs if he died in the ;ervice. The warrants might
be located at any land office in the United States.
.
~~en ~t was first proposed to give lands to those who served in the Mexican war, the measure met with much
opposit10n :11 C~ngress. _It was alleged that, of the great body of lands which had been given to soldiers of former
~~c~~ b~t 'ery httle had mured to the benefit of the grantees, and that cases were very rare indeed where a soldier
'
ct :tally become the occnpant of the lands intended for his benefit, most of the lands having pu,ssecl into the
hands of speculators at a mere nominal price. It was said that, as soon as the bill was signed hundreds of men
':0 ~1d start for the army, and every sutler's tent, every petty grocery, would become a broker'~ office where tho
:~m!8 t~warrants,
co~e~ug millions of acres of the public domain, would be obtained from the soldiers for ;ery trifling
0
·
prevent tllrn it was proposed to make the warrants, or the lan~l which might be located ·unclcr them, lrnt

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.
transferable for the periocl of seven years, but to this it was objected that, in the case of those who might wish to sell
and not to occupy their lands, it was putting the reward of their labors off to a time so distant as to make it of but little
aclvantage to them.* It was :finally decided to give to each the option of receiving a land-warrant, not transferable
until after issue, or a treasury scrip for $100, or for $25, according to term for which enlisted.. The scrip was to bear
6 per cent. interest and to be redeemable at the pleasure of the government. It was supposed that those whose
Wl1llt Of money was immecliat,e WOUld prefer the scrip, Which Was equivalent to an interest-bearing treasury note; but
it was fouml that most of the soldiers preferred the land-warrants, only the sum of $233,075 in the bounty-land
scrip having been issued. That this result might have been foreseen is evident, when it is considered that a land~
warrant for one hundred a.ml sixty acres was equivalent, at the then price of government land, to $200.
LOAN OF 1848.
The President of the United States, in his message of December 7, 1847, informed Congress that if the war with
Mexico continued until July 1, 1848, the expenditure woukl probably exceed the revenue provic1ec1 by law about
$16,000,ooo, t while the Secretary of the Treasury, in his report of December 8, estimated that, adding tll;e sum
necessary to be kept in the treasury to meet the wants or' the government and maintain the enlarged operations
at the mints, there would be requirecl $18,729,114 27,·in addition to the probable revenue. A bill to authorize a
loan not to exceed $18,500,000 was introdtwed in the House of' Representatives January 19, 1848. The chairman
of the committee of ways and means informed the House, during the debate, that an error lmd been discovered in
the :financial statement of the Secretary of the Treasury, which clisclosecl the gratifying fact that there was in the
treasury nearly $7,000,000 more than had been stated to the House, in consequence of which it was supposed theloan might be reduced to $12,000,000, but that t.he Secretary of War had since askec1 au appropriation of nearly
$4,000,000 to supply certain deficiencies in that branch of the public service, and it would therefore be necessary
to make the amount $16,000,000, and he moved an amendment making the alteration, avowing at the same time
his utter want of confidence in the estimates of the Secretary of the Treasury, and stating that he believed at
least $25,000,000 would be required.t
The hill passed both houses after an extended debate and was approved March 31, 1848 (9 St.atutes, 217). It
authorized the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States, at any time within one year from the passage
of the act, a sum not exceeding $10,000,000, at an interest of not more than 6 per cent. per annum, payable quarterly
or semi-annually, reimbursable at any time after July 1, 1868. No'certificate of stock was to be issued for a less
amount than $50. The expenses attending the execution of the act were not to exceed $16,000. The Secretary of
the Treasury was authorized to purchase the stock of the loan, at any time before the <late at which it became
reimhnrsable, at the market price, not below pa,r. Under this act stock to the amount of $16,ooo,ooo was issued
ancl solcl at a. small premium.
"
TEXAS INDEMNITY STOOK.
The state of Texas, when first annexed to the Uuitec1 States, had doubtful claims to an extensive territory. It
was sa.icl, in debate on the subject, that her southeast corner was at the mouth of the Rio Grande, the region of
perpetual flowers, her northeast corner near the South pass in the Rocky mountains, a region of everlasting snows;
that i:;he had a front on the Gulf of Mexico of a thousaucl miles, a front on the Rio Grande, partly disputed, of 2,00(}
miles, an unclispnted ·frontier on the Arkansas of 1,000 miles, rmcl within these boundaries she claimecl an area of
350,000 square miles, or more tluw equal to seven states as large as Pennsylvania.§
'
To somewhat rec1uce this enormous territory, to pay her somewhat shadowy claims to all the public lanc11:l
within these boundaries, and to obtain from her a release of her claims on the United States for liability for herdebts, and to indemnify her for the surrender of her ships, forts, arsenals, custom-houses, munitions of war, and
public buildings, a bill was introl1nced in the Senate Augm;t 5, 1850.
'l'he hill, notwithstanding strenuous opposition, was passed ancl approved September 9, 1850 (9 Statutes, 447) ..
It provided that if the state of Texas should consent that her boundary on the north should commence at a point
at which the meridian of one lnmclrecl degrees west from Greenwich is intersected by the parallel of 36° 30' north
latitude and run thence clue west to the meridian of one hundred ancl three clegrees west from· Greenwich, then
south to the thirty-second degree of north latitude, then on said parallel to the Rio Bravo del Norte, and thence,
with the channel of said river, to the Gulf of Mexico, and should cede to the United States all her claim to the
territory exterior to these boundaries, ancl relinquish all claim on the· United States for liability for her debts, anc1
for compensation for the surrender of her ships, forts, custom-houses, public buildings, &c., then the United States,.
in consideration for the same, should pay her the snrn of $10,000,000 in stock, bearing 5 per cent. interest, payable
semi-annually, redeemable at the end of fourteen years. No more than $5,000,000 of said stock was to be issued
until the creditors of the state holding bonds and other certificates of the stock of Texas; for which duties on
imports were specifically pledged, should :first :file at the treasury releases of all claim against the United States on.
account of said bonds or certificates.
*Cong. Globe, 2d Sess. 20th Cong., p. 2031 et BCIJ..
t Cong. Globe, 1st Sess. 30th Cong., p. \I.

t Cong. Globe, 1st sess. 30th Cong., p. 312, ct seq.
9Cong. Globe, 1st sess. 31st Co11g., p. 166.

3G8

VALUA'rION, 'l1AXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

Under this act but 8J,OOO,OOO iu stock was issued, as a subsequent act, npproved February 28, 1855 (10 Statutes,
017), proYided tbat tbe creditors of. 'l'cxas should be paid in cash, awl increased the amount to be paid them
to $7,750,000, to ue didtletl pro rata among such creditors of the State as were comprehended in the act of
September D, 1850.
TREASURY NOTES OF 18ii7.
Tllo Secretary of the Treasury, in his annual report of December 8, 1857, informed Congress that although tliere
wa8 a balance on hand at the close of tlie last fiscal year amounting to $17, 710,114 27, yet so great was tbe fa1ling
off in the re,·enues from customs, owing to tlle monetary crisis of that period, that it woukl be absolutely necessary
to pro-ride the treasury with some additional means of meeting the demands upon it. On this point lie says:
Such proYisiou shoultl he mado at tho earliest pmcticahlo period, as o. failuro of sufficient means in the treasury may occur at an early
day. '.!.'ho exigency being regarded as temporary, tho mode of providing for it should bo of a temporary clmracter. It is therefore
recommendetl that authority ho given to this department, by law, to issue treasury notos for an amount not to oxceed $20,000,000, payal.>lo
within a limitell time, and carrying n specitlccl rato of interest, whenever tho hnmcdiato demands of the public scn·ico may call for a
greater amount of money th:1n sl1all l11tppe11 to be iu the treasury, subject to the treasurer's drafts in payment of warrants. Tho fact that
811ch temporary exigency may arise from circumstances beyond tho foresight or control of this department makes some ncleqnato 11rovision
to meet it inclispensable to tho public security.

.A bill for this purpose was introduced in the Senate, ©ll the 17th of December, by the committee on finance,
and on the following day in the House of Representatives by the committee of ways and means, and was at once
the cause of an exciting debate.
Serious charges of mismanagement and extravagance in the administration of the several departments were
made on the one side, while on the other the cause of the recent monetary crisis was charged to the action taken by
the banks in their suspension of specie payments.
Notwithstanding the strong 01>positiou manifested in both llouses, the necessity for.the passage of some measure
for the immediate relief of the treasury was conceded, and the bill :finally passed the Senato on the lDth of December,
by a Yote of 31 yeas to 18 nays. On the 22d it passed the House of Representati1es by a vote of 118 yeas to SG
nays, and, being approvecl by the President on the following daJ', became a law December 23, 1857 (11 Statutes,
257). This act authorized the issue of treasiJry notes for such sum as the exigencies of the public ser-rice migllt
require, not to exceed at any time the amount of $20,0oo,ooo, and of denominations not less tlrnn $100 for any such
note, payable and redeemable at the treasury of the'United States after Hie expiration of one year from the dates
of Sltid notes, with interest thereon, not to exceed six per cent.; the :first issue not to exceed $0,000,000. The resil1ue
to be issued jn whole or in part, after public advertisement of not less than thirty drtys, by exchanging said notes,
at their par value for specie, to tlle bidder or bidders agreeing to make such exchange at the lowest rate of interest,
not exceeding six per cent.; interest to cease at the expiration of sixty days' notice by the Secretary of the Treasury
of readiness to imy and redeem said notes at their maturity. The faith of the United States was solemnly i>ledged
for their redemption, and they were mtide receivable for aH dues to t11e United States. Under this ::wt the amount
(Jf $52,778,900 was issued, incluuing reissues.

LOAN OF 1858.
The prediction made in the debate on the bill to issue the treasury notes of 1857, that the amount asked for
was not enough, and tliat at least $201000,000 more would be· required, was speedily realized. In 1\fay, 1858, the
Secretary of the Treasury informed Congress that, owing to the appropriations having been increased by legislation
nearly $10,000,000 over the estimates, while the revenue from customs had fallen about ~10,000,000 below the
estimates, it would be necessary to provide some means of meeting the deficit.* A bill to authorize a loan not
exceeding $15,000,000 was reported in the House of Representatives May 26, 1858, and this amount was subsE:'quen tly
increased· to $20,000,000.
The chairman of the committee of ways and means, who reported the bill, said that the public debt was then
$~5,157,058 27, all of which would fall dne within ten years, and the date of redemption of the proposed Joan had
therefore been made fifteen years, or five years beyond the period within which tho then existing debt would faU
·due. He estimatetl that, even if authority was given to borrow $15,000,000, there would still be a deficit at tlic
close of the fiscal year of nearly $1,000,000. On account of this probable deficit, and of an increase in tho amount
of appropriations, the Senate raised the amount of the proposed loan to $20 1000,000. The bill was approved ,Tnnc
14, 1858 (11 Statutes, 363). It authorized the President to borrow, on the credit of the United States, at any
time within twelve months after the date of the act, a sum not exceerling $201000,000, reimbursable at any time
after January 1, 1874. The interest was not to exceed 5 per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, with cou11ons
for the semi-annual interest attached to each certificate of stock. No certificate was to be issued for less than
$1,000, and none was to be sold at less than its par Yalue. Under thi:; act the s:m1 of $20,000,000 was obtained,
the certificates selling at from 2 to 7 i>er cent. premium.
• Cong. Glol.Hl, 1st scss. 35th Cong., i1. :1019.

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

3G9

LO.AN OF 1860.

The annual report of the Secretary of the Treasury dated December 22, 1859, contained the following clause:
In the estimated means of the treasury for the present and next fiscal ye11rs, it will be seen th11t no provision is made for the
permanent redemption of any portion of the $20,000,000 of treasury notes. 'l'he authority for reissuing these notes will expire on the
30th of June nex.t1 and it will, therefore, lie necessary for Congress to extend the law for that purpose for another period.

Oongress appears to have differed with the Secretary as to the propriety of reis~uing the notes, as, instead of
giving authority so to do, a bill providing for their redemption by means of a loan was introduced in the House of ·
Representatives .June 21, passed both houses almost without debate, and was approved .June 22, 1860 (12 Statutes,
79) .. It authorized the President to borrow, at any time within twelve months after the passage of the act, a
sum not exceeding $21,000,000, on the credit of the United States, the money to be used only in the redemption of
treasury·notes, and to replace in the treasury any amount of said notes which should have been paicl in for public
<lues.
The stock was to bear interest not exceeding 6 per cent. per annum, and was to be reimbursed within a period
not beyond twenty years nor less than ten y~ars. No certificate was to be issued for less than $1,000. The
Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to cause coupons of semi-annual interest to be attached to the certificates,
and any certificate bearing such coupons attached was to be assignable by delivery. No stock was to be disposecl
-0f at less than its par value.
Undei; this act the sum of $7,022,000 was borrowed, at 5 per cent. interest, the certificates selling at from par
to 1.45 per cent. premium.
It would appear that the failure to realize the whole amount of the loan was caused by the political troubles
that culminated in the war of the Rebellion. Bids were invited for $10,000,000 on September 8, 1860, and the whole
amount offered was speedily taken. It soon became evident, however, that war was inevitable, ancl a commercial
crisis ensued, during which a portion of·the bidders forfeited their deposits, and the loan was withdrawn from the
market after the amount stated above had been realized.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1860.
Authority for the issue of these notes became necessary when it was found that but a portion of the $21,000,000
loan authorized by the act of June 22, 1860, could be obtained, and was recommended by the Secretary of the
Treasury in his annual report of December 4, 1860, as follows :
To meet the remaining outstanding treasury notes and interest thereon, there is yet to be negotiated eleven millions of the stock
authorized by the act of .Tune 22, 1860. The statement just made of the difficulties attending the payment for the stock alrei~dy solcl, in
-0onncction with the fact that capitalists, in the present condition of the country, seem unwilling to invest in Unitecl States stock at par,
renders it almost certain that this remaining eleven millions cannot now be negotiated upon terms acceptable to the government. The
condition of the treasury is such that no serious delay can be indulged. I recommend, therefore, a repeal of so much of t;he act of June
22, 1860, as uuthorizes tho issuing of this additional eleven millions of stock, and that authority be given for the is'suing of treasury notes
to the same amount, to be negotiated at such rates as will command the confidence of the country. To creato that confidence, I recommend
that the public lands be unconditionally pledged for the ulJiimate redemption of all the treasury notes which it may become necessary to
issue. I make 'this recommendation of substituting treasury notes for stock the more readily from the conviction that there should
.always exist in the department power to issue treasury notes for a limited amount, under the direction of the Pxesident, to meet unforeseen
·Contingencies. It is a power which can never be abused, as the amount realized from such source can only be used to meet lawful
demancls upon the treasury.
·

A bill to allow the issue of treasury notes to an amount not exceeding $10,000,000 was introduced in tll.e
House of Representatives December 10. There appears to have been but little opposition to the bill as a whole,
but an effort was made to change some of its features. .A.n ~ttempt was made to pledge the receipts from the
public lands specifically for the redemption of the notes. In the Senate an unsuccessful effort was made to
&uthorize the issue of notes as low as $20, it being urged that notes of the smaller denominations would be more
1eadily taken at par, as they could be paid to laborers and others having small demands against the government.
The Senate r~iected this amendment, but altered the bill so as to allow of the issue of notes of as low a denomination
as $50. The same attempt was made as in the House to pledge the proceeds of the public lands for the specific
redemption of the notes, and objected to on the ground that it would interfere with the homestead bill then under
discussion iJt Oongress.
The bill passed, and was approved December 17, 1860 (12 Statutes, 121). It authorized the President to cause
the issue of treasury notes for such sums as the exigencies of the public service might require, not exceeding at any
time"the amount of $10,000,000, of denominations not less than $50 for each note, redeemable at the treasury after
the expiration of one year from the date of issue, bearing interest until redeemed or called at the rate of G per cent.
per annum; but the Secretary was authorized to issue them, after advertisement, at such rates of interest as might
be offered by the lowest responsible bidders. Under this act treasury notes were issued, redeemable at the.
· expiration of one year from date, bearing interest as follows: $70,200, at 6 per cent.; $5,000, at 7 per cent.; $24,500,
A..t 8 i)er cent.; $33,ooo, at 8k per cent.; ~11~,ooo, at 8~ per ~ent.; $65,ooo, at 9 per cent.; $lo,ooo, at 9ij; per cent.:

24 W D T

370

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

$160,000, at 9~ per cent.; $77,000, at 9~ per cent.; $1,027,500, at 10 per cent.; $266,000, at 10! per cent.; $62~ 1 000,
at 102 per cent.; $1,367,000, at 10~ per cent.; $1,432,700, at 11 per cent.; $4,840,000, at 12 per cent.-makmg a
total of $10,010,900.
.
.
.Additional offers were received, ranging from 15 to 36 per cent., wluch were deehned.
LOAN OF FEBRUARY, 1861.
So low had the credit of the government fallen at this time that Secretary John A. Dix, 111 a letter to the
chairman of the committee of ways and means of the House of Representatives, dated Jannar! 18, 1861, suggested
to the committee, as an additional financial resource, that the several states be asked: as secu:1ty for the repayment
of any money the government might :find it necessary to borrow, ·to pledge the deposits recervecl by them from the
government under the act for the distribution .of the s~rplus revenu~s in 1836, believing th~t ~ l~an coutractecl on
such a basis of security, superadding to the pllghted faith of the Umted States that of the rnd1v1dual states, could
hardly fail to be acceptable to capitalists.
.
·
The committee reported, on the 1st of February, a bill to authorize a loan of $25,000,ooo, with a statement tlrnt
the Secretary of the Treasury had repprted tliat there would be an actual deficit in the revenue of $21,677,524. In
addition to this, the chairman of the committee stated that the deficiency bill appropriated between two and throo
millions of dollars, making an estimated deficiency of $24,000,000, while the amount in the treasury on the 1st of
January was but $2,233,220. At least $5,000,000 were required to carry on the daily operations; there sllonld,
therefore, be provided, in addition to the revenues, at least $25,000,000.* It was said, in debate on the bill, tlin.t tho
amount was needed to pay off the debts of the retiring administration. The falling off in the revenue was caused
by the political troubles which ended in the war of the Rebellion, and which had ah'eacly diminishecl the imports to
a very large extent.
The bill was objected to on the ground that the Secretary still possessed the power, under the act of June, 1800,
to borrow $14,000,000, and that this amount, at least, should be deducted from the prOJ)Osed loan. To this it was
answered that the balance of the loan of.June 22, 1860, could not be sold upon the terms prescribed in the htw, mul
that if it could, the money was specifically pledged to the redemption of the treasmy notes of 1860.
The bill was approvecl Felmiary 8, 1861 (12 Statutes, 129). It authorized the President to borrow, at any tiurn
before the 1st day of July, 1861, a sum not exceeding $25,000,000, to be used in the payment of current demands
on the treasury, for the redemption of outstanding treaslll'y notes, and to replace in the treasury snch notes as had
been paid in for public dues. The stock was to bear interest not exceeding 6 per cent. per annum, and to be
reimblU'.sable within not less than ten nor more than twenty years. The Secretary of the Treasury was anthorized.
to cause coupons of semi-annual interest to be attached to the bonds, whenever required. No certificate of stoek
was to be issued for less than $1,000. Under this act bonds were issued amounting to $18,415,000, at an aggrogato
discount of $2,019,776 10, or an average rate of $89 03 per one hundred dollars.
TREASURY NOTES OF 1861.
The Secretar,r of the Treasury in his repo~t on the :finances, dated December 22, 1859, had estimated that:
there woultl be a balance in the treasury, June 30, 1801, of only $3,530,196 61, which left no margin for additional
appropriations. If, therefore, the appropriations should exceed the estimates, or Congress should determine withh1
this periocl to provide for the payment of any portion of the public debt, which then amounted .to nearly $00,000,000,
it would be necessary to mak~ adequate provision for such contingencies. The Secretary expressed himself as of
tbe opinion that the idea of increasing the public debt to meet the ordinary expenses of government should not be
entertained for a moment. If additional demands on the treasury were created by legislation, provision must he
made to meet them by such an increase of tariff duties as might be necessary.
A. bill for the repayment of outstanding treasury notes, to authorize a loan, and to regulate and :fix the duties,
on imports was introduced in the Honse March 12, 1860. It was said, in debate on the bill that the idea of not
increasing the public debt to meet current expenses was a very patriotic one, and that it would hardly be suspected
that the administration had practically illustrated the sentiment, by steadily increasing the debt to meet those
expenses during every year that it bad been in power, with the following result:
' .
Dalnnce in treasury, July 11 1857 .•••••.•••••.•••••.•.•••.••••.•••••••••••..••••••••••••••••••••••• $17, 710, 114 27·
Public debt, July 11 1857 ...••• .•.••. •••• •••. •••• ••.. .••• •••• •••••. .••••. .••••. •••• •••• •••••• •••••• 29, 060,..386 go
Public debt, July 1, 1858.... •.•• .••••. .•• •.. ••.• .••••• •••• ••• . •••••. ..•••• •••••. •.•••• •••• •• • • •••• 44 910 777 66
Public debt, .Tuly 11 1859...... .••••. ..•••. ..•••. ..•••. ........ .••• .• • .. . . •• ... •••• ••• ••• . • ••.. •• ••• 58: 754: 699 33

.A~ding the balance in .the treasury on the 1st of July, 1857, to the debt at the close of the year 1859, and
deducting the debt of 1857, it appeared that the sum total of an idea "not to be entertained for a moment" was au
increase~ the P1:bli? d_ebt ©f $47?404,426 70. It was furthermore charged that this had taken place under a tariff
that l)ractically d1scnmmated agamst our own people, compelling us, for every fourteen or fifteen millions of revenue
collected at home, to foot a bill of a hundred millions abroad. t
*Cong. Globe, 2d sees. 36th Cong., p. 713.

t Cong; Globe, 1st sees. 36th Cong,1 p. 1831.

.HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

371

· bill took a very wide range, mclu
·
d'rng tiie
... suuJeC
1! · t
and of protectien
to American.
'ifih~ d :Oa:te '®'!the
sof the ta-'.!'iJ
nu,
.
.
e e
.
.
to the state of the Union and to the political troubles which brought on t~e war.
\ndustry, an~ ~r~en br~~~h~~1 ~:led to pass both houses at that session. It was taken up at the next meetmg of
of the ~on.' but
a law until March 2, 1861 (12 Statutes, 178), after many of the southern members had
Congress, but did not bec~:.e
not to the proposal to issue the notes, admitted to be necessary to supply the
left 'Congress. The opposr ion was h t ,, on the eye of a great war but to the provisions for an increase of th~
current demands on the treasury, ex ans e\;I.
·
'
f th
t
tariff contained in the same bill.
The act authorizecl the President to borrow, at any time within twel:e ~onths from t1re passage o e ac , a
· t
d'
$10 000 000 to be applied to the payment of appropnat10ns made by law and the balanc.e of
sum n~ :~:: ~~=n outsta~cli~g, and to no other purposes. No stipulation or contract was to be ent?re~ mto
~:~:: ~ould prevent the United States from reimbursing the a~ou~t borrowed, at any time after the exprrat10n of
f
th fi t l y of July next ensuing after due notice gwen.
ten ~~~~e ~:pos!ls r~a~: for the loan were not s~tisfactory, then the President was autho:1'ized, instetcl ~f bo~~;i~g
the money to issue treasury notes, in lieu thereof, for the full amount of the loan authonzedb and a ~o o s~ s i ;he
treasur n~ws for the whole or any part of the money which he was authorized to borrow y previous ac s..
e
notes .:Cre to be for sums of not less than $50 each, bearing interest at the rat~ o~ 6 per cent. ¥er a~:um, payabl~
semi-annually; were to be redeemable, at the pleasure of the United States, w1tbm two years. rom e passageo:,:i
the act· and were to cease to bear interest after being called in by the Se.cretary of the. Treasmy.
~ •.-· ·'
U1:cler this act treasury notes to the amount of $35,364,450 were ISsned, of which amou~t, $~2;;'~o8,100 was'
· t
. nd $19 896 350 sixty days after chtte. It was the war of the Rebelli01_., 'Wlnch began a.
.. ,< '
•
f +' r
. .
11
red eemable in WO years a
few weeks after the passage of the bill, that necessit.a;ted au jncrease .so far m exc~s; 0 A0 amount origm.a ;\· .
oontemplated, an increase, however, which was warranted by thQ letter if not by the w,,,uellt of the a~i'.:·

·

T

OREGON WAR DEBT,

....

,,~

··

The settlement of Oregon appears to have commenced in 1830, bht was oon:tined to a few adventmous pioneers,
wh@ made their way across the plains from Missouri through friendly or hostile llidian tri<bes, until the year 1850,
whoo. emigration was stimulated by the i~assage of an act giving 320 acres of land to each settler, and, if married,
the same amount to his wife. In 1851 the gold-washings of the Rogue river valley were discovered, which caui;;ed a
sll!dldcn increase of population from the mining districts of California. Shortly after these miners arrived, the
tmubles with the Indians commenced.
In 1855 hostilities broke out and a general war ensued, which continued for more than a year, after which thcro .
was a short but hollow peace. In 1858 another war began, but was of short duration, the increased wbite
population and the military forces of the general government soon overpowering the Indians.
At the breaking out of the war in 1855 the militia were called out by the governors of Oregon and Washington,
and heavy expenses incurred. After the war closed a demand was made on the general government for the
payment of these troops, and for the expenses of their maintenance in the field.
A commission, appointecl under an act of Congress, was sent out to investigate the subject anc1 audit the clnhm;.
The repm•tof this commission stated the amount due to Oregon at $4,449,949 33, and to Washington $1,481,475 45.* 1
A supplemental report added about $80,000, making the total amount to $6,011,424 78. The committee on military
affairs referred this report ancl the papers to ihe third auditor of the treasury, under a resolution of the House,
with directions to audit the claims, and in so doing to allow the militia the same pay as was given to regular soldiers
of the· same grade in the United States army, ancl for the supplies a reasooable approximation to what was already
authorized by existing laws'.
On the 7th of February, 1860, the third auditor transmitted bis report to the Rouse, showing that the claims,
if settled on this footing, would aggregate $2,714,808 55. Against this reduction the delegates from Oregon and
Washington protested. A bill passed ihe Senate in 1861, appropriating between three and four millions of dollars
for the payment of these claims, but it never reached a vote in the House.
A bill for the payment of the Oregon and Washington war debt was introduced in Fet>ruary, 1861, passed
both hC!luses, with some slight amendments, and was approved March 21 1861 (12 Statutes, 198). It appropriated,
for the pay of volunteers m the war, the sqm of $400,000, the claims to be examined and audited by the third
auditor, and the volunteer~ to be allowed the same pay as United States officers and soldiers serving in Oregon
and Washington. For the payment of claims for services, supplies, transportation, &c., incurred in the maintenance
of the volunteers, $2,400 1000 was appropriated, the claims to be also settled by foe third auditor, and the prices
allowed to be, as nearly as possible, the same as had been paid for supplies to the regular forces of the United
States; horses and other property lost or destroyed in the military service to be settled for on the principles
laid do~n in. previous acps.
•Ex. Doc. H. R., 1st sess. 35th Cong., No. 45.
· - 1. . . -

•

372

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

The Secretary of the Treasury was auth~rized, if be deemed it expedient, to issue to t~e c.laimants, or their
:representatives, in payment of their audited claims, bonds of the United States of. a denommat10n not less than
:$50, redeemable in twenty years, and bearing interest at the rate of 6 per cent., with coupons attached, payable
..annually or semi-annually, at the discretion of the Secretary.
Under this act bonds to the amount of $1,090,850 were issued.
LOAN OF JULY AND AUGUST, 1861-0LD DEMAND NOTES-SEVEN-THIRTIES OF 1861.
The extra session of Congress which began July 4, 1861, was held under very different circumstances from
those which had accompanied any preceding session. Eleven states had attempted to secede from the Union, and
were in actual rebellion. Seventy.five thousand volunteers had been called into the field to s~1ppress the unlawful
combination, and Congress met in a military camp.
The Secretary of the Treasury, Salmon P. Chase, in his report on the finances, dated July 4, 1861, estimatocl
the expenditures for the :fiscal ;rear 1862 at $318,519 1581 87, and this sum, vast as it seemed, was, as events proved,
more than $240,ooo,ooo less than the actual expenditures.
The President in his message to Congress at the beginning of the extra session, had asked anthority to borrow
.$400,000,000, and 'this amount, added to the whole revenues of the government, was more than one hundrecl
millions short of the actual expenditures.
A bill to meet the expenses of the war, by obtaining a loan of $250,00o,ooo, was introduced in the House July
9, 1861, and considered in committee of the whole the next clay. Debate on the bill was limited to one hour, and
this hour was entirely occupied by one member. At the conclusion of his remarks the bill was passed by yeas 150,
nays 5.
·
The bill passed the Senate without much debate, but with many amendments, which were concurred in by
the House, and was approved July 17, 1861 (12 Statutes, 259.) It authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to
borrow, on the credit of the United States, within twelve months from the passage of the act, a sum not exceeding
$250,ooo,ooo, for which he was authorized to issue coupon or registered bonds, or treasury notes, in such propor·
tions of each as he might deem advisable, the bonds to bear interest not exceeding 7 per cent. per annum, payable
semi-annually, and redeemable, at the pleasure of the United States, aftertwenty years. The treasury notes to be
of any denomination :fixed by the Secretary, not less than $50, payable three years after date, with interest at the
rate of 7-fci per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually.
The Secretary was also authorized to issue treasury notes of a less denomination than $50 and not less than
$10, bearing interest at the rate of 3.65 per cent. per annum, payable in one year from date, and exchangeable at
any time for treasury notes of $50 and upward, bearing interest as specified above ; also, to issue treasury notes
of less tban :fifty and not less than ten dollars, not bearing interest, but payable on demand; but the whole
amount of such notes issued was not to exceed $50,000,000.
The Secretary was further authorized to issue, whenever he should deem it expedient, treasury notes of a.ny of'
the denominations before specified, bearing interest not exceeding 6 per cent., payable at any time not exceeding
twelve.months after date, but the whole amount of notes so issued was not to exceecl $20,000,000. ·
Notes of less than $50, when redeemed, might be reissued or canceled and new notes issued in their stead,
but the aggregate amount of bonds and notes issued under previous sections of the act was never to exceed
$250,000,ooo, and the power to issue or reissue the treasury notes was to cease December 31, 1862.
A bill supplemental to the above act was introduced in the Senate July 22, and passed both houses with but
little debate, though some opposition was made to the section which allowed the Secretary of the Treasury to fix
the denomination of the treasury notes at any sum below $50. The limit was finally fixed at $5, and the bill
passed and was approved August 5, 1861 (12 Statutes, 313).
·
.
It authorized the Secretary to issue a part of the bonds provided for by the act of July 17, 1861, at 6"per cent.
per annum, these bonds to be exchangeable for treasury notes bearing interest at 7-fo per cent., but no such bond
was to be issuecl for less than $500, nor was the whole amount of such bonds to exceecl the whole amount of treasury
notes bearing 71\ per cent. interest issued under the said act.
The Secretary was also authorized to issue treasury notes, not bearing interest, of denominations as low as five
dollars. The act of February 12, 1862 (12 Statutes, 338), authorized the issue of $10 000 000 in demand notes in
addition to the $50,000,000 authorized by the acts of July 17 and August 5, 1861.
' '
·
Under these acts bonds and trea.'3ury notes were issued as follows:
Loan of July and .A.ugust,-1861, 6 per cent. bonds ............................ _•.. _•••..••••••••••• _.. $189, 321 350
Old demand notes, no interest ••••••.••..••••....•••..• _.. • • • . • . • • • • •• • • • • •• • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • .
60, 030: 000
Seven-thirties of 1861, interest at 7-fa- :per cent ..•• _..••••...••• , _.......... _••• ••• . • •• •. • .• • ••• •• . • • • . 139, 999, 750
Total. •••••.••.•.•••••••.•.••••••.•••.••.••••••••••••••••.•••••••••.•••••••••••••• ·"···· ••••

----389,351,100

HISTORY OF THE NA'l'IONAL LOANS.

373

I

. When it is con~idere.d .that. only a year before a loan of $~1,oo0,000 had been asked for, and only about oueth1rd that sum obtamed, it is evident that the danger which menaced the Union had aroused the people and induced
them to pour out their means freely in aid of the government.
The disasters of the early part of the war were really.a gain instead of a loss as they convinced the North of
the necessity of freely contributing money and men to save the imperiled nation. '
FIVE-TWENTIES OF 1862-TEMPORARY LOAN.
The so-called "five-twenties of 1862" were issued under the authority granted by the act of February 25, 1862
(12 Statutes, 345), already referred to in the remarks on the legal-tender notes. The following is a copy of the
second section of this act:
.An!l be it fiirther enacted, That to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to 'fund the treasury notes and Jloating debt of the Unitetl
Sta.tea, ho is hereby a,uthorizec1 to issue, on the creclit of the Unitecl States, cOUJJOn bonds, or registerecl hands, to an amou.nt not exceeding
. $500,00U,OOO, .re.<lcoma.ble at t:qo pleasure of the United Sta.tes after five years, anc1 payable twenty years from <late, anil bearing interest
at the rate of six. per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually. .A.nd the bonds herein authorized shitll be of such denominations, not less
than $50, as nrn.y bo c1otermincc1 upon by the Secretary of the 'rreasury. Anil the Secretary of the Treasury ina,y dispose of such bomls
at m:ty time, at tho market value thereof, for the coin of the United States, or for any of the treasury notes that have been, or may
he1·eafter be, issued uudor any former act of Congress, or for United States notes that may be issued under the provisions of this act; and
all stocks, bonds, and other securities of the United States held by individuals, corporations, or associations, within the United State~,
shall be exempt from taxation by or under state authority.
•

'11he success of this loan was remarkable, Secretary Chase lrnving used every exertion to provide for its general

distribution among the people. In his annual report to Congress, dated December 10, 1863, he said:
After ascertaining, by inquiry, that they could not be disposed of to capitalists, in amounts sufficient for prompt pa~'ment of the
army and navy, ancl for the satisfaction of tho just claims of public cre<litors generally, without serious loss, the Secretary cletcrmiuecl to
employ a general a.gent, under adequate boncls, and conficl.e the whole work of clistribution, except so far as it could be effected lJ~~ the
treasnl'CJ', assistant tTeasurers, a.nd designatecl deJJOsita.ries, to him, and to sub-agents designated by him, all(} responsible immeiliatd~' to
him. Under this plan, and chiefly through indefatigable efforts of the general agent and his sub-agents, five-twenty bonus to the amount
of nearly $400,000,000, in denomina.tions of $ii0, $100, $500, and $1,000, were distributed throughout the whole country not controllecl lJy
the i·ebellion, and among all cl!Lsses of our eountrymen. 'rho history of the world may be searched in Yain for a parallel case of popular
financial support to a na.tiona,l government."

On closing the subscription books at the time appointed, it was found that $11,000,000 over and above the
amount asked for had alread;v been subscribed, and the subscribers having complied with the regulations prescribed
by the department, in its public notice inviting subscriptions, the secretary was obliged to ask for additional
legislation to enable him to issue the required amount.
The act of March 3, 1864 (13 Statutes, 13), authorized an additional issue of $11,000,000 to persons who
subscribed for this loan on or before the 21st day of J annary, 1864, the bonds so issu,ed to have the same force and
eflect as if issued under the former act.
·
In March, 1863, it became necessary to transmit a consiclerable amount of funils to London, for a special purpose, for which an
a11propriation hacl been made by Congress, anc1 it was thought advisable to dc]Josit a certa.iu· amount cf our securities \\ith an eminent
London banker, against ·which bills might be drawn. Five-twenty bonds, to the amount of $10,000,000, were accordingly ]llacecl jn the
haucls of two clistinguished citizens, to whose care t,he negotiatiou was committc<l. The negotiation fail eel, an<l $6,000,000 of the $10,000,000
were returned to the treasury an<l disposed of. It was ~hought a<1visable that the amount of $4,000,000 shoulcl remain, and that exchange
shoulcl be drawn against it, am1 the bonds disposed of abroad, if a favorable market shoulcl be found. It apJJears,.howeYer, that very
nearly this amount of issue is in excess of the $511,000,000 a,uthorized by existing laws, $510, 756,900 having been clisposecl of. 'fhe act of
June 30, 1864, authorizes the secretary to dispose of "any boncls known as five-twenties remaining unsold". It is at least questioniible
whether, by this clause, power is conferred to dispose of an amount beyond that fixed by existing laws. Ad<litional legislation mny
remove that doubt, should Congress think it advisable, otherwise they may be canceled. Exchange having been drawn, it became
necessary to provide funds to meet the bills at maturity, which was accomplished by shipments of gold from Califorma. t

The action taken by the Secretary met with the a.pproval of Congress, and the act of January 28, 1865 (13
Statutes, 425), was passed, authorizing the further issue of bonds of this loan to an amount not exceeding $4,000,000,
and their sale in the United States or Europe at any time, on such terms as the Secretary of the Treasury deern~d
most advisable.
.
Under these acts, bonds were issued to the amount of $514,771,600, bearing 6 per cent. interest, redeemable
a.t the pleasure of the United States after five years, and payable twenty years from date.
Section 4: of the act of Febrnary 25, 1862 (12 Statutes, 34:5), provides:
That the Secretary of the Treasury may receive from any person or persons, or any corpor~tion, United .st~tes notes on ~OJlOSit for
not less than thirty days, in sums of not less than $100, with any of the assistant treasurers ~r designated de~os1tanes ?f the Umted States
authorized by the Secretary of t,he Treasury to receive them, who shall issue therefor certificates of deposit, made m such form as the
Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe, ancl said certificates of deposit shall bear inte~est at the rate o~ 5 p~r cent. per annum; a~d
any amount of United States notes so de]Josited may be withdrawn from deposit at any trme after ten days notrne on the return of said
certificates: Provided, That the interest on all suoh ile]Josits shall cease and determine at the pleasure of the Secretary of the Treasury:
Anti provided j 1irth6'r, 'rhat the ~ggregate of such deposit shall at no time exceed the amount of $25,000,000.
*Finance Report, 1863, p. 14.

t Finance Report, 1864, P• 8.

VALUATION, TAXATION, AND PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS.

374

Section 4 of the act of March 17, 1862 (12 Statutes, 370), authorized the increase of temporary loan dep.osits to
an amount not exceeding $50,000 1000, and this amount was still further increased to $100,000,000 by sect1011 3 of
the aet of June 11, 1862 (12 Statutes, 532), which also provides that not less than $50,000,000 of legal_ tenders
authorized by the act shall be reserved for the purpose of securing the prompt payment of such deposits when
demanded. these notes to be issued and usecl only when, in the judgment of the Secretary of the Tre~sury, tlle same,
or any pa;t thereof, may be needed for that purpose. Section 4 of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat~tes, 21!)),
autho;ized a still further increase to an amount not exceeding $1501000,000, and an increase of the rate of mterest to
not e:xceedin" 6 per cent. l)er annum, or a decrease of the rate of interest on ten days' notice, as the public interest.
might requi;e. Under this authority temporary loan deposits were received, amounting in the aggregate to
$716,090,247 lfj,

LEGAL'.TENDER NOTES.
The Secretary of the Treasury, at ~he beginning of the extra session of Congress, July 4, 1861, had estimated
the t•xpenses during the fiscal year 1862 at $318,519,58187. In his report on the :finances, December O, 1861, owiug
to the unexpected proportions which the war had assumed, and the extraordinary increase in tho army and. mwy
which hail become necessary, he was obliged to revise his :figures. He estimated, at that date, the expenditures
duriug the year at $.543,406,422 06, of which sum $213 1904,427 68 remained to be provided, for which recourse nrnHt
be Juul to loans. The result proved that even the increased figures were more than $20,000,000 too low.
""
A bill to authorize the issue of $100,000 1000 in treasury notes, and to fund the outstanding deb~ aucl. the floating
debt. by the issue of $500,000,000 in bonds, was introduced in the House January 22, 1862. The first section of tlrn
hill, ;s lntroduceu-tliough subsequently amended-provided that there should be printed on tho back of the notes
the following words:*
The within note is a legal tender in payment of all debts, public and private, and is exchangeable for bonds of tho Uuito<l. Stiite!l
bearing' 6 per cent. interest.

This legal-tender clause developed opposition in both houses of Congress, even among supporters of tho
administration. It "Was well said in debate that this was the :first time it had been proposed in the Cougress of
the United States to make anything but gold and silver a legal tender. The question has been raised and disputed
a!l to whether what was ca11ed the ''continental currency", issued during the war of the Revolution by the old
govemment, was or was not legal tender. The facts appear to be that while the Oontineutal Congress ·did not by
any ordinance attempt to gi-ve it that character, they asked the states to do so, and all seem to have complied
exc0pt lthode Island. The Continental Congress or<ly enacted that the man who refused to take the money should
1Je deemed an enemy of his country. George Washington complained, in one of his letters, that he lu:t(l beou ol>liged
to receive the currency at imr, iu.imyment of a debt, when it had so depreciated that its value wi.1s almost nominnl.
The opr1ouents of the clause nuder which the first issue of' foe present legal-tender currency was made, said that
such au issue woulcl lie, in effect, to aid and assist in.en who owed debts to pay them with a depreciated emTe1icy, at
par, at the cost and expense of the creditor, and that it was therefore clearly a proposal t0 interfere with exi1:1ting
contracts; that the government was abont to go before the community and ask for CI'.edit on the plighted public
faith, arnl it was asked on what the public faith rested¥ Evidently on the belief that the government appreciated
the inviolability of contracts. And yet, it was said, the very bill in which it was proposed to appeal for credit for
a -vast sum propo::;etl to destroy this inviolability.
Those who farnred the bill do not seem to have found. any very strenuous arguments in favor of the leg·nJtender clause, per se, but made the plea that it was a uecessity, a war measure, justified as any other step might ba
justified which had become necessary, in order that the nation might live.
The words of Secretary Chase on this subject show how the matter was regarded by the administration :t
The proviHion making Unitell States notes a legal tender has cloubtless been well considerecl by the committee, and their conclusion

needs 110 support from any observation of mine. I think it my duty, however, to say, that in respect to this provision my reflections ha vo
conducted me to the same conclusions they have reached. It is not unknown to them that I have felt, nor do I wish to conceal that J uow
feel, a great aversion to making anything but coin a legal tencler in payment of debts. It has been my anxious wish to a.voicl tho necossil;y
of such legislation. It is, however, at present impossible, in consequence of the large expendiimres entailed by the war ancl thQ suspcmsio;1
of the _banks, to l~roeure sufficient coin for disbursements; and it has, therefore, become indispensably necessary that we should resort
to tlui Illsne of }Jmted Stat~s notes. Th~ making them a legal tender might, however, still be avoided if the willingness manifested by
the people generally, by ~ailroad ~ompames, and by many of the banking institutions, to receive ancl pay them as money in all transactions
were absolutely or iiractically umversal, hut, unfortunately, thero are some persons and some institutions whioh rofnse to recuive an cl
pay. them, anil whose action tends not merely to the unnecessary depreciation of the notes but to establish cliscriminatious in business
agruD.llt ~hose ~ho, in this matter, give a cordial support to the government, auil in favo~ of those who do not. Such discriminations
shou!~· if pos!Ubl?, be prevented; and the provision making the notes a legal tender, in a great measure at least, prevents it by putting
all citizens, in this respect, on the same level, both of rights and duties,
'

It would appear that even the financiers of the country were very much divided in opinion respecting the legal.
tender clause, ancl Mr. Fessenden, in his speech in the Senate on the bill, called .attention to the fact:f
thew~~~~ knows much upon the ~uestion of finance, not even those who are most familiar with it; for, sir, I de.clare to-day that, in
_ _ _ _u_m_h_er_o_f learned financial men that I have consulted, I never have founcl any two of them who agree and thereforo it ·is

•c ong. Globe, 2d scsa. 31th Cong., p. 522.

t Ibid., p. 618.

' p. 766.
tibid.,

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL LOANS.

375

hardly worth while for ua to plead any very remarkable degree of ignorance when nobody is competent to instruct us; and yet such ia the

faet. I can state to you, Mr. president, that on one day I Wllll advised very strongly by a leading financial man, at all events to oppose
this legal-tender clause"; he exclaimed agaiinst it with all the bittemess in the :world. On the very same day I recei..-ed a note from a.
friend of his, telling me that we coul:d not get along without it. I shoi\Ved it to him, and he e~pressed his utter surprise. He went home,
and next day telegraphed to me that he had changed his mind and now thought it was absolutely necessary.; and his friend who wrote to
me wrote again that he had changed his, and they were two of .the most eminent financial men in the country.

When two of the leading :fi.11.ancial luminaries cou1d thus find themselves on both sides of so important a.
question within a few hours, it may be doubted whether enough fixed principles in finance have been discovered to
entitle it to be called a science.
It is very evident that the issue of so large an amount of noites, without the legal-tender clause, must have
(}ansed them to depreciate much more than they did, and that with specie payments suspended by all the banks,
and the coin of the country locked up, or in the bands of speculators, the distress must have been much increased by
the fact t,hat creditors could have demanded payment, not i11. the common currency, but in gold and silver, which
eould only have been obtained at exorbitant prices.
Several amendments to the original bill were adopted, including a modification of the legal-tender clause, and
the amount of notes of that character to be issued was increased to $150,000,000.
Tlle bill was approved February 25, 1802 (12 Statutes, 345). It authorized the Secretary of tlie Treasury to issue,
on the credit of the United States, treasury notes to the amount of $150,000 1000, bearing no interest and payable to
bearer, of such denominations as he might deem expedient, not less than five dollars each. Fifty millions of these
notes to be in lieu of the ''demand notes" issued under the act of July 17, 1801, whick latter were to be taken up
as rapidly as practicable, and the n.otes authorizetl by this act substituted therefor.
Tlle amount of the two kinds of notes together was at no time to exceed $150,000 1000. These notes to be
"receivable in payment of all taxes, internal duties, excises, debts, ancl demands of every kind due to the United
States, except duties on imports, ancl of all claims and demamls against the United States, of every kind whatsoever,
except for interest upon bonds and notes, which shall be paicl in coin, and shall also be lawful money and a legal
tender in payment of all debts, public and private, wi:thin the United States, except duties on imports and interest
as aforesaid".
They were to be exchangea,ble in sums of $50, or any multiple thereof, for bonds of the United States, bearing
interest at the rate of 6 per cent., payable semi-annually, the bonds to be redeemable at the l)leasure of the United
States after five years, and payable twenty years after date. The notes were made receivable the same as coin, at
their lmr value, for any lmms that might thereafter be sold or negotiated by t)?.e Secretary of the Treasury, imd
when receivecl for such loans or for public dues might be reissued from time to time as the exigencies of the
.government might require.
The act of July 11, 1862 (12 Statutes, 532), authorized an additional issue of $150 1000,000 in legal-tender notes of
such denominations as the Secretary of the Treasury might deem expedient, but no note was to be for the fractional
part Gf a uolfar, and not more than $35,000,000 of lower denominations th~tn $5. The act of l\Iarch 3, 1803 (12
Statutes, 7H), authorizecl another issue of $150,000,000 in legn1-teuder notes, including the amount authorized. by
resolution of January 17, 1803 (12 Statutes, 822), of such denominations not less than one dollar as the Secretary
might prescribe.
This act ahlo limited the time at which treasury notes might be exchanged for United States bonds to July 1,
1803.

Undar these acts legal-tender notes have been issued amounting in the aggregate to $1,040,559,947. The
difference between the amount authorized and the amount "issued is accounted for. by reissues from time to time, as
authorized by law.
CERTIFICATES OF INDEBTEDNESS.
.A bill to allow the issue of certificates for the amount due on audited and settled accounts was introduced iu
the Senate February 27, passed both houses without debat~, and was approved March 1, 1862 (12 Statutes, 352).
It authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to issue, to any public creditor who might desire to receive the same,
certificates for the whole amount due, or parts thereof, not less than $1,000, in satisfaction of audited and settled
accounts. These certificates were to bear 6 per cent. interest per annum, and were payable one year from date or
earlier at the option of the government. The act of March 17, 1802 (12 Statutes, 370), authorized the issue of these
certificates to such public creditors as might desire to receive them, in payment of disbursing officers' checks drawn
ora the treasurer of the United States. The act of l\farch 31 1803 (12 Statutes, 710), made the interest payable in
lawful money. Under these acts certificates of indebtedness amounting to $561,753,241 05 have been issued.

